documentation/docs/reference/third-party/clickhouse.md, before:

# ClickHouse

You can use an external ClickHouse database instance outside the PMM Server container running on other hosts.

## Environment variables

PMM predefines certain flags that allow you to use ClickHouse parameters as environment variables.


To use ClickHouse as an external database instance, provide the following environment variables: 
 
`PMM_CLICKHOUSE_ADDR` -> hostname:port
:   Hostname and port of the external ClickHouse database.

`PMM_CLICKHOUSE_HOST` -> hostname
:   Hostname of the external ClickHouse database.

`PMM_CLICKHOUSE_PORT` -> port
:   Port of the external ClickHouse database.

`PMM_CLICKHOUSE_USER` -> username
:   Username to connect to the external ClickHouse database.

`PMM_CLICKHOUSE_PASSWORD` -> password
:   User password to connect to the external ClickHouse database.

`PMM_DISABLE_BUILTIN_CLICKHOUSE` -> 1
:   Disables the built-in ClickHouse database instance.

**Optional environment variables**

`PMM_CLICKHOUSE_DATABASE` -> database name
:   Database name of the external ClickHouse database instance.

**Example**

To use ClickHouse as an external database instance, run PMM in docker or podman with the specified variables for external ClickHouse:

```sh
-e PMM_CLICKHOUSE_ADDR=$CH_HOST:$CH_PORT
-e PMM_CLICKHOUSE_DATABASE=$CH_DATABASE
-e PMM_CLICKHOUSE_USER=$CH_USER
-e PMM_CLICKHOUSE_PASSWORD=$CH_PASSWORD
-e PMM_DISABLE_BUILTIN_CLICKHOUSE=1
```

Alternatively, you can use the `PMM_CLICKHOUSE_HOST` and `PMM_CLICKHOUSE_PORT` variables instead of `PMM_CLICKHOUSE_ADDR`.

```sh
-e PMM_CLICKHOUSE_HOST=$CH_HOST
-e PMM_CLICKHOUSE_PORT=$CH_PORT
-e PMM_CLICKHOUSE_DATABASE=$CH_DATABASE
-e PMM_CLICKHOUSE_USER=$CH_USER
-e PMM_CLICKHOUSE_PASSWORD=$CH_PASSWORD
-e PMM_DISABLE_BUILTIN_CLICKHOUSE=1
```

## Troubleshooting

To troubleshoot issues, see the ClickHouse [troubleshooting documentation](https://clickhouse.com/docs/guides/troubleshooting).

Commit message:

PMM-13171 Add ClickHouse security best practices (#4009)
* PMM-13171 Add security best practices to ClickHouse docs

* PMM-13171 Update comments

* PMM-13171 Drop the apostrophe

* linguistic review

---------

Co-authored-by: Catalina A <catalina.adam@percona.com>

documentation/docs/reference/third-party/clickhouse.md, after:

# Use external ClickHouse with PMM

You can use an external ClickHouse database instance outside the PMM Server container running on other hosts.

## Environment variables

PMM predefines certain flags that allow you to use ClickHouse parameters as environment variables.


To use ClickHouse as an external database instance, provide the following environment variables: 
 
`PMM_CLICKHOUSE_ADDR` -> hostname:port
:   Hostname and port of the external ClickHouse database.

`PMM_CLICKHOUSE_HOST` -> hostname
:   Hostname of the external ClickHouse database.

`PMM_CLICKHOUSE_PORT` -> port
:   Port of the external ClickHouse database.

`PMM_CLICKHOUSE_USER` -> username
:   Username to connect to the external ClickHouse database.

`PMM_CLICKHOUSE_PASSWORD` -> password
:   User password to connect to the external ClickHouse database.

`PMM_DISABLE_BUILTIN_CLICKHOUSE` -> 1
:   Disables the built-in ClickHouse database instance.

**Optional environment variables**

`PMM_CLICKHOUSE_DATABASE` -> database name
:   Database name of the external ClickHouse database instance.

**Example**

To use ClickHouse as an external database instance, run PMM in docker or podman with the specified variables for external ClickHouse:

```sh
-e PMM_CLICKHOUSE_ADDR=$CH_HOST:$CH_PORT
-e PMM_CLICKHOUSE_DATABASE=$CH_DATABASE
-e PMM_CLICKHOUSE_USER=$CH_USER
-e PMM_CLICKHOUSE_PASSWORD=$CH_PASSWORD
-e PMM_DISABLE_BUILTIN_CLICKHOUSE=1
```

Alternatively, you can use the `PMM_CLICKHOUSE_HOST` and `PMM_CLICKHOUSE_PORT` variables instead of `PMM_CLICKHOUSE_ADDR`.

```sh
-e PMM_CLICKHOUSE_HOST=$CH_HOST
-e PMM_CLICKHOUSE_PORT=$CH_PORT
-e PMM_CLICKHOUSE_DATABASE=$CH_DATABASE
-e PMM_CLICKHOUSE_USER=$CH_USER
-e PMM_CLICKHOUSE_PASSWORD=$CH_PASSWORD
-e PMM_DISABLE_BUILTIN_CLICKHOUSE=1
```

## Enhance ClickHouse security for PMM

When configuring PMM to use an external ClickHouse instance, make sure to enforce robust security practices to protect sensitive data and prevent unauthorized access:

- Enable SSL/TLS encryption for all connections
- Ensure that your ClickHouse instance is properly secured and monitored
- Disable empty passwords and plain text passwords
- Define all ClickHouse users explicitly, including permissions, to prevent automatic creation of unsecured users without passwords.
- Generate strong, random passwords for the dedicated PMM ClickHouse user. Use the following commands to generate a password and its SHA256 hash (useful for advanced ClickHouse configurations):

    ```sh
    PASSWORD=$(base64 < /dev/urandom | head -c12)
    echo "$PASSWORD" # note it down
    echo -n "$PASSWORD" | sha256sum | tr -d '-'
    ```

For more details, see the [ClickHouse user and roles settings](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings-users).

## Troubleshooting

To troubleshoot issues, see the ClickHouse [troubleshooting documentation](https://clickhouse.com/docs/guides/troubleshooting).
