docs/api/backups/restore-backup.md, before:

---
title: Restore from a backup
slug: restorebackup
excerpt: This endpoint allows to restore a database from a previously made backup.
category: 66acac6024b4bc0022d980f3
---

PMM can backup the monitored services.

This section describes making ad-hoc backups from a service.

### Restoring From a Backup

Here is an example of an API call to restore from a backup:

```shell
curl --insecure -X POST -H 'Authorization: Bearer XXXXX' \
     --request POST \
     --url https://127.0.0.1/v1/management/backup/Backups/Restore \
     --header 'Accept: application/json' \
     --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
     --data '
{
     "service_id": "40499c38-522d-4ed1-ab3f-8a099684f46d",
     "artifact_id": "ff582c9d-49ea-437c-9f3a-362c57e7ad38",
     "pitr_timestamp": "2023-09-09T10:02:25.998"
}
'
```

You require an authentication token, which is described [here](ref:authentication).

Also, you require the [service_id](ref:listservices) and [location_id](ref:listlocations).

You can defined a `name` and a `description` for each backup. You can also configure `retry_interval` and `retries` if required.

### Error messages

The API call could return an error message in the details, containing a specific ErrorCode indicating the failure reason:
- ERROR_CODE_XTRABACKUP_NOT_INSTALLED - xtrabackup is not installed on the service
- ERROR_CODE_INVALID_XTRABACKUP - different versions of xtrabackup and xbcloud
- ERROR_CODE_INCOMPATIBLE_XTRABACKUP - xtrabackup is not compatible with MySQL for making a backup
- ERROR_CODE_INCOMPATIBLE_TARGET_MYSQL - target MySQL version is not compatible with the artifact to perform a restore of the backup

Commit message:

PMM-12985 Apply v3 API infra modifications and update docs (#3207)
* PMM-12985 Apply API infra modifications

* PMM-12985 Apply API infra modifications

* PMM-12985 add --version flag to spec sync

* PMM-12985 change the slug name

* PMM-12985 migrate from IDs to slugs

* PMM-12985 update the intro with links

* PMM-12985 update inventory overview

* Update docs/api/inventory/overview.md

Co-authored-by: Catalina A <94133018+catalinaadam@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/api/inventory/overview.md

Co-authored-by: Catalina A <94133018+catalinaadam@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update api/server/v1/server.proto

Co-authored-by: Catalina A <94133018+catalinaadam@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/api/access-control/overview.md

Co-authored-by: Catalina A <94133018+catalinaadam@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/api/advisor-api/advisors-and-advisor-checks.md

Co-authored-by: Catalina A <94133018+catalinaadam@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/api/advisor-api/overview.md

Co-authored-by: Catalina A <94133018+catalinaadam@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/api/advisor-api/overview.md

Co-authored-by: Catalina A <94133018+catalinaadam@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/api/inventory/overview.md

Co-authored-by: Catalina A <94133018+catalinaadam@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/api/advisor-api/overview.md

Co-authored-by: Catalina A <94133018+catalinaadam@users.noreply.github.com>

* PMM-12985 Regenerate.

---------

Co-authored-by: Catalina A <94133018+catalinaadam@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Nurlan Moldomurov <bupychuk1989@gmail.com>

docs/api/backups/restore-backup.md, after:

---
title: Restore from a backup
slug: restorebackup
excerpt: This endpoint allows to restore a database from a previously made backup.
categorySlug: backup-api
---

PMM can restore a service (database) from a backup.

This section describes restoring a service from a backup taken before.

### Restoring From a Backup

Here is an example of an API call to restore from a backup:

```shell
curl --insecure -X POST \
     --header 'Authorization: Bearer XXXXX' \
     --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
     --url https://127.0.0.1/v1/backups/restores:start \
     --data '
{
     "service_id": "40499c38-522d-4ed1-ab3f-8a099684f46d",
     "artifact_id": "ff582c9d-49ea-437c-9f3a-362c57e7ad38",
     "pitr_timestamp": "2023-09-09T10:02:25.998"
}
'
```

You require an authentication token, which is described [here](ref:authentication).

Also, you require the [service_id](ref:listservices) and [location_id](ref:listlocations).

You can define a `name` and a `description` for each backup. You can also configure `retry_interval` and the number of `retries` if required.

### Error messages

The API call could return an error message in the details, containing a specific ErrorCode indicating the failure reason:
- ERROR_CODE_XTRABACKUP_NOT_INSTALLED - xtrabackup is not installed on the service
- ERROR_CODE_INVALID_XTRABACKUP - different versions of xtrabackup and xbcloud
- ERROR_CODE_INCOMPATIBLE_XTRABACKUP - xtrabackup is not compatible with MySQL for making a backup
- ERROR_CODE_INCOMPATIBLE_TARGET_MYSQL - target MySQL version is not compatible with the artifact to perform a restore of the backup
