aichat-backend/MCP_TRANSPORT_SUPPORT.md, before:

# MCP Transport Support

The AI Chat Backend supports both **stdio** and **SSE** (Server-Sent Events) transport methods for connecting to MCP servers with automatic transport detection.

## Transport Types

### 1. stdio Transport
- **Use case**: Local MCP servers that run as separate processes
- **Communication**: Standard input/output pipes
- **Configuration**: Specify `command` and `args` fields
- **Examples**: Filesystem servers, local database tools, git operations

### 2. SSE Transport  
- **Use case**: Remote MCP servers accessible via HTTP
- **Communication**: Server-Sent Events over HTTP
- **Configuration**: Specify `url` field
- **Examples**: Web APIs, cloud services, remote databases

## Configuration Schema

```json
{
  "servers": [
    {
      "name": "string",           // Required: Unique server identifier
      "description": "string",    // Optional: Human-readable description
      "command": "string",        // stdio only: Command to execute
      "args": ["string"],         // stdio only: Command arguments
      "url": "string",            // sse only: Base URL for SSE endpoint
      "env": {},                  // stdio only: Environment variables
      "timeout": 30,              // Optional: Connection timeout (seconds)
      "enabled": true             // Required: Enable/disable server
    }
  ]
}
```

## Auto-Detection Logic

Transport type is automatically determined:
- If `url` is present → **SSE transport**
- If `command` is present → **stdio transport**
- If neither is present → **Configuration error**
- Both fields cannot be specified for the same server

## Implementation Details

### Client Creation
```go
// Auto-detect transport based on configuration
if serverConfig.URL != "" {
    transport = "sse"
    mcpClient, err = client.NewSSEMCPClient(serverConfig.URL)
} else if serverConfig.Command != "" {
    transport = "stdio"
    mcpClient, err = client.NewStdioMCPClient(serverConfig.Command, serverConfig.Args...)
} else {
    return fmt.Errorf("server configuration must specify either URL (for SSE) or Command (for stdio)")
}
```

### Connection Flow
1. **Transport Detection**: Determine transport type from URL vs Command presence
2. **Client Creation**: Create appropriate MCP client (SSE or stdio)
3. **Initialization**: Send MCP initialize request with capabilities
4. **Tool Discovery**: List available tools from the server
5. **Registration**: Register tools in the service registry

### Error Handling
- **Missing configuration**: Validation for required fields per transport
- **Connection failures**: Graceful handling with detailed logging
- **Timeout handling**: Configurable timeouts per server

## Configuration Examples

### stdio Transport Examples

#### Filesystem Server
```json
{
  "name": "filesystem",
  "description": "Local file operations",
  "command": "npx",
  "args": ["@modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem", "/workspace"],
  "timeout": 30,
  "enabled": true
}
```

#### Database Server
```json
{
  "name": "postgres",
  "description": "PostgreSQL operations",
  "command": "python",
  "args": ["-m", "mcp_server_postgres", "--connection-string", "postgresql://user:pass@localhost/db"],
  "env": {
    "PGPASSWORD": "secret"
  },
  "timeout": 45,
  "enabled": true
}
```

### SSE Transport Examples

#### Remote API Server
```json
{
  "name": "remote-api",
  "description": "Remote tool server",
  "url": "https://api.example.com/mcp/sse",
  "timeout": 60,
  "enabled": true
}
```

#### Local Web Server
```json
{
  "name": "web-tools",
  "description": "Local web-based MCP server",
  "url": "http://localhost:8080/mcp",
  "timeout": 30,
  "enabled": true
}
```

## API Endpoints

The backend exposes these endpoints for MCP management:

- `GET /api/v1/mcp/tools` - List all available tools from all servers


### Server Status Response
```json
{
  "filesystem": {
    "name": "filesystem",
    "description": "File operations",
    "transport": "stdio",
    "enabled": true,
    "connected": true,
    "tool_count": 5
  },
  "remote-api": {
    "name": "remote-api", 
    "description": "Remote tools",
    "transport": "sse",
    "enabled": true,
    "connected": false,
    "tool_count": 0
  }
}
```

## Benefits

### stdio Transport
- ✅ Direct process control
- ✅ Environment variable support
- ✅ Local resource access
- ✅ No network dependencies

### SSE Transport  
- ✅ Remote server support
- ✅ Web-based integration
- ✅ Scalable architecture
- ✅ HTTP-based debugging

## Migration Guide

### Configuration simplification:

1. **Remove transport field**: No longer needed - auto-detected from URL vs Command
2. **stdio servers**: Ensure `command` field is present
3. **SSE servers**: Ensure `url` field is present
4. **Test connections**: Verify both transport types work correctly
5. **Monitor status**: Use status endpoint to check server health

### Configuration validation:
- stdio servers must have `command` field
- SSE servers must have `url` field  
- Cannot specify both `url` and `command` for the same server

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **stdio Transport**
   - Command not found → Check PATH and command availability
   - Permission denied → Verify execute permissions
   - Timeout errors → Increase timeout or check server startup time

2. **SSE Transport**
   - Connection refused → Verify URL and server availability
   - HTTP errors → Check server logs and network connectivity
   - Timeout errors → Increase timeout for slow servers

### Debug Logging

Enable debug logging for MCP connections:
```json
{
  "env": {
    "DEBUG": "mcp*",
    "LOG_LEVEL": "debug"
  }
}
```

## Future Enhancements

- **Authentication**: Support for API keys and tokens in SSE transport
- **Load balancing**: Multiple URLs for SSE servers
- **Health checks**: Periodic connection validation
- **Metrics**: Connection and performance monitoring

Commit message:

Enhance AI Chat backend configuration and improve session management
This commit updates the `.gitignore` to include build artifacts and the `Dockerfile` to use a newer Go version and add a non-root user for better security practices. The `ARCHITECTURE.md` and `ENVIRONMENT_VARIABLES.md` files have been updated to reflect changes in API key handling and configuration options. Additionally, the session management logic has been refined, including improved error handling and session ID generation. The frontend components have been adjusted to support these backend changes, enhancing the overall user experience.

aichat-backend/MCP_TRANSPORT_SUPPORT.md, after:

# MCP Transport Support

The AI Chat Backend supports both **stdio** and **SSE** (Server-Sent Events) transport methods for connecting to MCP servers with automatic transport detection.

## Transport Types

### 1. stdio Transport
- **Use case**: Local MCP servers that run as separate processes
- **Communication**: Standard input/output pipes
- **Configuration**: Specify `command` and `args` fields
- **Examples**: Filesystem servers, local database tools, git operations

### 2. SSE Transport  
- **Use case**: Remote MCP servers accessible via HTTP
- **Communication**: Server-Sent Events over HTTP
- **Configuration**: Specify `url` field
- **Examples**: Web APIs, cloud services, remote databases

## Configuration Schema

```json
{
  "servers": [
    {
      "name": "string",           // Required: Unique server identifier
      "description": "string",    // Optional: Human-readable description
      "command": "string",        // stdio only: Command to execute
      "args": ["string"],         // stdio only: Command arguments
      "url": "string",            // sse only: Base URL for SSE endpoint
      "env": {},                  // stdio only: Environment variables
      "timeout": 30,              // Optional: Connection timeout (seconds)
      "enabled": true             // Required: Enable/disable server
    }
  ]
}
```

## Auto-Detection Logic

Transport type is automatically determined:
- If `url` is present → **SSE transport**
- If `command` is present → **stdio transport**
- If neither is present → **Configuration error**
- Both fields cannot be specified for the same server

## Implementation Details

### Client Creation
```go
// Auto-detect transport based on configuration
if serverConfig.URL != "" {
    transport = "sse"
    mcpClient, err = client.NewSSEMCPClient(serverConfig.URL)
} else if serverConfig.Command != "" {
    transport = "stdio"
    mcpClient, err = client.NewStdioMCPClient(serverConfig.Command, serverConfig.Args...)
} else {
    return fmt.Errorf("server configuration must specify either URL (for SSE) or Command (for stdio)")
}
```

### Connection Flow
1. **Transport Detection**: Determine transport type from URL vs Command presence
2. **Client Creation**: Create appropriate MCP client (SSE or stdio)
3. **Initialization**: Send MCP initialize request with capabilities
4. **Tool Discovery**: List available tools from the server
5. **Registration**: Register tools in the service registry

### Error Handling
- **Missing configuration**: Validation for required fields per transport
- **Connection failures**: Graceful handling with detailed logging
- **Timeout handling**: Configurable timeouts per server

## Configuration Examples

### stdio Transport Examples

#### Filesystem Server
```json
{
  "name": "filesystem",
  "description": "Local file operations",
  "command": "npx",
  "args": ["@modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem", "/workspace"],
  "timeout": 30,
  "enabled": true
}
```

#### Database Server
```json
{
  "name": "postgres",
  "description": "PostgreSQL operations",
  "command": "python",
  "args": ["-m", "mcp_server_postgres", "--connection-string", "postgresql://user:pass@localhost/db"],
  "env": {
    "PGPASSWORD": "secret"
  },
  "timeout": 45,
  "enabled": true
}
```

### SSE Transport Examples

#### Remote API Server
```json
{
  "name": "remote-api",
  "description": "Remote tool server",
  "url": "https://api.example.com/mcp/sse",
  "timeout": 60,
  "enabled": true
}
```

#### Local Web Server
```json
{
  "name": "web-tools",
  "description": "Local web-based MCP server",
  "url": "http://localhost:8080/mcp",
  "timeout": 30,
  "enabled": true
}
```

## API Endpoints

The backend exposes these endpoints for MCP management:

- `GET /api/v1/mcp/tools` - List all available tools from all servers


### Server Status Response
```json
{
  "filesystem": {
    "name": "filesystem",
    "description": "File operations",
    "transport": "stdio",
    "enabled": true,
    "connected": true,
    "tool_count": 5
  },
  "remote-api": {
    "name": "remote-api", 
    "description": "Remote tools",
    "transport": "sse",
    "enabled": true,
    "connected": false,
    "tool_count": 0
  }
}
```

## Benefits

### stdio Transport
- ✅ Direct process control
- ✅ Environment variable support
- ✅ Local resource access
- ✅ No network dependencies

### SSE Transport  
- ✅ Remote server support
- ✅ Web-based integration
- ✅ Scalable architecture
- ✅ HTTP-based debugging

## Migration Guide

### Configuration simplification:

1. **Remove transport field**: No longer needed - auto-detected from URL vs Command
2. **stdio servers**: Ensure `command` field is present
3. **SSE servers**: Ensure `url` field is present
4. **Test connections**: Verify both transport types work correctly
5. **Monitor status**: Use status endpoint to check server health

### Configuration validation:
- stdio servers must have `command` field
- SSE servers must have `url` field  
- Cannot specify both `url` and `command` for the same server

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **stdio Transport**
   - Command not found → Check PATH and command availability
   - Permission denied → Verify execute permissions
   - Timeout errors → Increase timeout or check server startup time

2. **SSE Transport**
   - Connection refused → Verify URL and server availability
   - HTTP errors → Check server logs and network connectivity
   - Timeout errors → Increase timeout for slow servers

### Debug Logging

To enable debug logging for MCP connections, set the environment variables in the appropriate location for your server process:

- **For stdio transport:**  
  Add the variables to the `env` section of the server configuration in your MCP config file (as shown below). These will be passed to the subprocess when it is started.

- **For SSE transport or the main backend server:**  
  Set the environment variables in your system environment (e.g., in your shell, systemd service file, or Docker environment) before starting the backend server process.

**Example for stdio server configuration:**
```json
{
  "env": {
    "DEBUG": "mcp*",
    "LOG_LEVEL": "debug"
  }
}
```

**Example for system environment (SSE or backend):**
```sh
export DEBUG=mcp*
export LOG_LEVEL=debug
./aichat-backend
```

> **Note:**  
> For stdio servers, the `env` block in the config file only affects the subprocess. For the main backend or SSE servers, use your system's environment variable mechanism.

## Future Enhancements

- **Authentication**: Support for API keys and tokens in SSE transport
- **Load balancing**: Multiple URLs for SSE servers
- **Health checks**: Periodic connection validation
- **Metrics**: Connection and performance monitoring
