aichat-backend/README.md, before:

# AI Chat Backend

A sophisticated AI chat backend service for PMM (Percona Monitoring and Management) with support for multiple LLM providers, MCP (Model Context Protocol) server integration, and persistent chat history.

## Features

- **Multiple LLM Providers**: OpenAI, Anthropic, and other providers
- **MCP Server Integration**: Connect to external tools and data sources via MCP protocol
- **PMM Authentication Integration**: Seamless user authentication via PMM's auth server
- **Persistent Chat History**: Database-backed chat sessions with user isolation
- **Session Management**: Create, update, delete, and list chat sessions
- **File Attachments**: Support for uploading and processing files in chat
- **Streaming Responses**: Real-time streaming chat responses via Server-Sent Events
- **Tool Execution with Approval**: Request user approval before executing tools
- **Parallel MCP Connections**: Efficient parallel connection to multiple MCP servers

## Authentication

The AI Chat Backend integrates with PMM's authentication system:

1. **PMM Auth Server**: All `/v1/chat/` endpoints (except `/v1/chat/health`) require PMM authentication with at least `viewer` role
2. **User ID Header**: PMM auth server sets `X-User-ID` header containing the authenticated user's ID
3. **Data Isolation**: Each user's chat sessions and history are completely isolated
4. **Security**: Requests without valid authentication will receive 401 Unauthorized responses

### Authentication Flow

```
User Request → nginx → PMM Auth Server → AI Chat Backend (with X-User-ID header)
```

The auth server validates the user's session and forwards the request with the user ID, ensuring secure access to user-specific chat data.

**Note**: There is no fallback to a default user. All endpoints require valid PMM authentication.

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

```bash
# Server configuration
export AICHAT_PORT="3001"

# LLM configuration
export AICHAT_LLM_PROVIDER="openai"
export AICHAT_LLM_MODEL="gpt-4o-mini"
export AICHAT_API_KEY="your-api-key-here"

# MCP servers configuration
export AICHAT_MCP_SERVERS_FILE="/etc/aichat-backend/mcp-servers.json"

# Database configuration (uses dedicated AI Chat database)
export AICHAT_DATABASE_URL="postgres://ai_chat_user:ai_chat_secure_password@127.0.0.1:5432/ai_chat?sslmode=disable"

# Alternative: Individual database parameters (for backward compatibility)
# export AICHAT_DB_HOST="127.0.0.1"
# export AICHAT_DB_PORT="5432"
# export AICHAT_DB_NAME="ai_chat"
# export AICHAT_DB_USERNAME="ai_chat_user"
# export AICHAT_DB_PASSWORD="ai_chat_secure_password"
# export AICHAT_DB_SSL_MODE="disable"

# CORS configuration
export AICHAT_CORS_ORIGINS="http://localhost:8080,http://localhost:8443"

# Logging
export AICHAT_LOG_LEVEL="info"
```

## API Endpoints

### Authentication

All endpoints (except `/v1/chat/health`) require PMM authentication. The user ID is automatically extracted from the `X-User-ID` header set by PMM's auth server.

### Chat Operations

- `POST /v1/chat/send` - Send a chat message
- `POST /v1/chat/send-with-files` - Send a chat message with file attachments
- `DELETE /v1/chat/clear?session_id=<id>` - Clear chat history for a session
- `GET /v1/chat/stream?session_id=<id>&message=<text>` - Stream chat responses (SSE)

### Session Management

- `POST /v1/chat/sessions` - Create a new chat session
- `GET /v1/chat/sessions` - List user's chat sessions (paginated)
- `GET /v1/chat/sessions/:id` - Get specific session details
- `PUT /v1/chat/sessions/:id` - Update session title
- `DELETE /v1/chat/sessions/:id` - Delete session and all messages
- `GET /v1/chat/sessions/:id/messages` - Get session messages (paginated)

### MCP Operations

- `GET /v1/chat/mcp/tools` - Get available MCP tools
- `GET /v1/chat/mcp/tools?force_refresh=true` - Force refresh MCP tools

### Health Check

- `GET /v1/chat/health` - Health check (no authentication required)

## Usage Examples

### Send a Chat Message

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:3001/v1/chat/send \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "X-User-ID: 123" \
  -d '{
    "message": "Hello, how can you help me with database monitoring?",
    "session_id": "session-123"
  }'
```

### Create a New Session

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:3001/v1/chat/sessions \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "X-User-ID: 123" \
  -d '{
    "title": "Database Performance Discussion"
  }'
```

### List User Sessions

```bash
curl -X GET "http://localhost:3001/v1/chat/sessions?limit=10&offset=0" \
  -H "X-User-ID: 123"
```

### Stream Chat Response

```bash
curl -X GET "http://localhost:3001/v1/chat/stream?session_id=session-123&message=Hello" \
  -H "X-User-ID: 123" \
  -H "Accept: text/event-stream"
```

## Development

### Running Locally

```bash
# Install dependencies
go mod download

# Set environment variables
export AICHAT_LLM_PROVIDER="openai"
export AICHAT_API_KEY="your-openai-api-key"
export AICHAT_DATABASE_URL="postgres://ai_chat_user:password@localhost:5432/ai_chat?sslmode=disable"

# Run the server
go run main.go

# Or build and run
go build -o aichat-backend main.go
./aichat-backend
```

### Testing with Authentication

For local development without PMM's auth server, the application falls back to a default user ID:

```bash
# Test with explicit user ID header
curl -X POST http://localhost:3001/v1/chat/send \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "X-User-ID: 123" \
  -d '{"message": "Test message", "session_id": "test-session"}'

# Test without header (uses default-user)
curl -X POST http://localhost:3001/v1/chat/send \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"message": "Test message", "session_id": "test-session"}'
```

## Database Schema

The service uses PostgreSQL with the following tables:

- `chat_sessions` - User chat sessions
- `chat_messages` - Individual messages within sessions  
- `chat_attachments` - File attachments for messages

All data is isolated per user ID for security and privacy.

## Integration with PMM

When deployed as part of PMM:

1. **nginx** handles routing and authentication
2. **PMM Auth Server** validates user credentials and sets headers
3. **AI Chat Backend** receives authenticated requests with user context
4. **Database** stores user-specific chat data securely

This ensures that users can only access their own chat sessions and history, maintaining proper data isolation and security within the PMM ecosystem.

## Database Migrations

The AI Chat Backend uses [go-migrate](https://github.com/golang-migrate/migrate) for database schema management with embedded migrations.

### Automatic Migrations

Migrations are embedded into the Go binary and run automatically on application startup:

```bash
# Migrations run automatically when starting the application
./aichat-backend

# Example startup output:
# Running database migrations...
# ✅ Database migration version: 1
```

### Migration Files

Migration files are stored in the `migrations/` directory and embedded at build time:

- `000001_create_chat_tables.up.sql` - Forward migration
- `000001_create_chat_tables.down.sql` - Rollback migration

### Production Benefits

This approach provides several advantages for production deployments:

- **Self-contained**: No need to distribute migration files separately
- **Version consistency**: Migrations always match the binary version
- **Reliability**: No risk of missing migration files
- **Security**: Migration logic is compiled into the binary
- **Simplicity**: No manual migration commands needed

Commit message:

Enhance AI Chat backend configuration and improve session management
This commit updates the `.gitignore` to include build artifacts and the `Dockerfile` to use a newer Go version and add a non-root user for better security practices. The `ARCHITECTURE.md` and `ENVIRONMENT_VARIABLES.md` files have been updated to reflect changes in API key handling and configuration options. Additionally, the session management logic has been refined, including improved error handling and session ID generation. The frontend components have been adjusted to support these backend changes, enhancing the overall user experience.

aichat-backend/README.md, after:

# AI Chat Backend

A sophisticated AI chat backend service for PMM (Percona Monitoring and Management) with support for multiple LLM providers, MCP (Model Context Protocol) server integration, and persistent chat history.

## Features

- **Multiple LLM Providers**: OpenAI, Anthropic, and other providers
- **MCP Server Integration**: Connect to external tools and data sources via MCP protocol
- **PMM Authentication Integration**: Seamless user authentication via PMM's auth server
- **Persistent Chat History**: Database-backed chat sessions with user isolation
- **Session Management**: Create, update, delete, and list chat sessions
- **File Attachments**: Support for uploading and processing files in chat
- **Streaming Responses**: Real-time streaming chat responses via Server-Sent Events
- **Tool Execution with Approval**: Request user approval before executing tools
- **Parallel MCP Connections**: Efficient parallel connection to multiple MCP servers

## Authentication

The AI Chat Backend integrates with PMM's authentication system:

1. **PMM Auth Server**: All `/v1/chat/` endpoints (except `/v1/chat/health`) require PMM authentication with at least `viewer` role
2. **User ID Header**: PMM auth server sets `X-User-ID` header containing the authenticated user's ID
3. **Data Isolation**: Each user's chat sessions and history are completely isolated
4. **Security**: Requests without valid authentication will receive 401 Unauthorized responses

### Authentication Flow

```
User Request → nginx → PMM Auth Server → AI Chat Backend (with X-User-ID header)
```

The auth server validates the user's session and forwards the request with the user ID, ensuring secure access to user-specific chat data.

**Note**: There is no fallback to a default user. All endpoints require valid PMM authentication.

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

```bash
# Server configuration
export AICHAT_PORT="3001"

# LLM configuration
export AICHAT_LLM_PROVIDER="openai"
export AICHAT_LLM_MODEL="gpt-4o-mini"
export AICHAT_API_KEY="your-api-key-here"

# MCP servers configuration
export AICHAT_MCP_SERVERS_FILE="/etc/aichat-backend/mcp-servers.json"

# Database configuration (uses dedicated AI Chat database)
export AICHAT_DATABASE_URL="postgresql://ai_chat_user:ai_chat_secure_password@127.0.0.1:5432/ai_chat?sslmode=disable"

# Alternative: Individual database parameters (for backward compatibility)
# export AICHAT_DB_HOST="127.0.0.1"
# export AICHAT_DB_PORT="5432"
# export AICHAT_DB_NAME="ai_chat"
# export AICHAT_DB_USERNAME="ai_chat_user"
# export AICHAT_DB_PASSWORD="ai_chat_secure_password"
# export AICHAT_DB_SSL_MODE="disable"

# CORS configuration
export AICHAT_CORS_ORIGINS="http://localhost:8080,http://localhost:8443"

# Logging
export AICHAT_LOG_LEVEL="info"
```

## API Endpoints

### Authentication

All endpoints (except `/v1/chat/health`) require PMM authentication. The user ID is automatically extracted from the `X-User-ID` header set by PMM's auth server.

### Chat Operations

- `POST /v1/chat/send` - Send a chat message
- `POST /v1/chat/send-with-files` - Send a chat message with file attachments
- `DELETE /v1/chat/clear?session_id=<id>` - Clear chat history for a session
- `GET /v1/chat/stream?session_id=<id>&message=<text>` - Stream chat responses (SSE)

### Session Management

- `POST /v1/chat/sessions` - Create a new chat session
- `GET /v1/chat/sessions` - List user's chat sessions (paginated)
- `GET /v1/chat/sessions/:id` - Get specific session details
- `PUT /v1/chat/sessions/:id` - Update session title
- `DELETE /v1/chat/sessions/:id` - Delete session and all messages
- `GET /v1/chat/sessions/:id/messages` - Get session messages (paginated)

### MCP Operations

- `GET /v1/chat/mcp/tools` - Get available MCP tools
- `GET /v1/chat/mcp/tools?force_refresh=true` - Force refresh MCP tools

### Health Check

- `GET /v1/chat/health` - Health check (no authentication required)

## Usage Examples

### Send a Chat Message

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:3001/v1/chat/send \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "X-User-ID: 123" \
  -d '{
    "message": "Hello, how can you help me with database monitoring?",
    "session_id": "session-123"
  }'
```

### Create a New Session

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:3001/v1/chat/sessions \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "X-User-ID: 123" \
  -d '{
    "title": "Database Performance Discussion"
  }'
```

### List User Sessions

```bash
curl -X GET "http://localhost:3001/v1/chat/sessions?limit=10&offset=0" \
  -H "X-User-ID: 123"
```

### Stream Chat Response

```bash
curl -X GET "http://localhost:3001/v1/chat/stream?session_id=session-123&message=Hello" \
  -H "X-User-ID: 123" \
  -H "Accept: text/event-stream"
```

## Development

### Running Locally

```bash
# Install dependencies
go mod download

# Set environment variables
export AICHAT_LLM_PROVIDER="openai"
export AICHAT_API_KEY="your-openai-api-key"
export AICHAT_DATABASE_URL="postgres://ai_chat_user:password@localhost:5432/ai_chat?sslmode=disable"

# Run the server
go run main.go

# Or build and run
go build -o aichat-backend main.go
./aichat-backend
```

### Testing with Authentication

For local development, you must provide the `X-User-ID` header. In production, requests without this header will fail authentication and be rejected.

```bash
# Test with explicit user ID header
curl -X POST http://localhost:3001/v1/chat/send \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "X-User-ID: 123" \
  -d '{"message": "Test message", "session_id": "test-session"}'
```

> **Note:** All endpoints (except `/v1/chat/health`) require the `X-User-ID` header. There is no fallback to a default user in production deployments.

## Database Schema

The service uses PostgreSQL with the following tables:

- `chat_sessions` - User chat sessions
- `chat_messages` - Individual messages within sessions  
- `chat_attachments` - File attachments for messages

All data is isolated per user ID for security and privacy.

## Integration with PMM

When deployed as part of PMM:

1. **nginx** handles routing and authentication
2. **PMM Auth Server** validates user credentials and sets headers
3. **AI Chat Backend** receives authenticated requests with user context
4. **Database** stores user-specific chat data securely

This ensures that users can only access their own chat sessions and history, maintaining proper data isolation and security within the PMM ecosystem.

## Database Migrations

The AI Chat Backend uses [go-migrate](https://github.com/golang-migrate/migrate) for database schema management with embedded migrations.

### Automatic Migrations

Migrations are embedded into the Go binary and run automatically on application startup:

```bash
# Migrations run automatically when starting the application
./aichat-backend

# Example startup output:
# Running database migrations...
# ✅ Database migration version: 1
```

### Migration Files

Migration files are stored in the `migrations/` directory and embedded at build time:

- `000001_create_chat_tables.up.sql` - Forward migration
- `000001_create_chat_tables.down.sql` - Rollback migration

### Production Benefits

This approach provides several advantages for production deployments:

- **Self-contained**: No need to distribute migration files separately
- **Version consistency**: Migrations always match the binary version
- **Reliability**: No risk of missing migration files
- **Security**: Migration logic is compiled into the binary
- **Simplicity**: No manual migration commands needed
