# Percona Monitoring and Management 2.38.1

| **Release date:** | July 13, 2023                                                                                    |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Installation:** | [Installing Percona Monitoring and Management](https://www.percona.com/software/pmm/quickstart) |

Percona Monitoring and Management (PMM) is an open-source database monitoring, management, and observability solution for MySQL, PostgreSQL, and MongoDB.

## Release Highlights

With this update, we have fixed the "User already exists" error: an authentication issue that occurred when users tried to log back into PMM through a Percona Account. Second and subsequent logins no longer result in this error. This issue is a consequence of [CVE fix 2023-3128](https://grafana.com/blog/2023/06/22/grafana-security-release-for-cve-2023-3128/) included in PMM 2.38, which increases security by authenticating users based solely on the unique user ID provided by the identity provider.

We encourage you to log into PMM using a Percona Account, as this is a highly secure authentication method. However, if you need to log into PMM via a third-party authentication provider which doesn't support a unique ID field, you can use the following workaround to log into PMM:

  - pass the `GF_AUTH_OAUTH_ALLOW_INSECURE_EMAIL_LOOKUP=1` environment variable to the PMM container **OR**
  - set the `oauth_allow_insecure_email_lookup` config key in the auth section of the `grafana.ini` file. Keep in mind that any changes you make to this file are lost when upgrading PMM, so make sure to manually update this file after each upgrade.

!!! caution alert alert-warning "Important"
We do not recommend using the above workaround for an extended period of time. Instead, ensure user uniqueness across multiple identity providers, while also encouraging your identity provider to support a unique ID field, or choose a provider who does.

