# Percona Monitoring and Management 2.43.0

| **Release date** | July , 2024                                                                                     |
| -----------------| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Installation** | [Installing Percona Monitoring and Management](../quickstart/index.md) |

Percona Monitoring and Management (PMM) is an open source database monitoring, management, and observability solution for MySQL, PostgreSQL, and MongoDB.

It enables you to observe the health of your database systems, explore new patterns in their behavior, troubleshoot them and execute database management operations regardless of whether your databases are located on-premises or in the cloud.

## What's new in this release

This release introduces this and that

## Release highlights

### Repository changes for PMM: Transition to dedicated `pmm2-client` repository


Effective July 1, 2024, Percona has discontinued updates for the original Percona (https://repo.percona.com/percona/) and tools (https://repo.percona.com/tools/) repositories in favor of dedicated product repositories. This change streamlines our repository management and improves efficiency across our product ecosystem.

For PMM users, this means you can now access the most up-to-date and secure versions of PMM exclusively from the dedicated [repo.percona.com/pmm2-client](`pmm2-client`) repository. To facilitate a smooth transition to this repo, we have developed an automated script that:

1. Checks installed packages and their repositories
2. Identifies PMM-related packages that should be installed from the `pmm2-client` repository
3. Provides instructions for enabling the correct repository

To ensure your PMM installation remains secure and up-to-date, [download this script from GitHub](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Percona-Lab/release-aux/main/scripts/check_percona_packages.py) and run it on your system.

For detailed instructions and more information about this change, check out [our recent blog post](https://www.percona.com/blog/ensure-the-correct-repositories-are-enabled-for-percona-packages/) and [updated documentation]().

### Improved troubleshooting

We've enhanced our troubleshooting capabilities to provide you with better insights and more efficient problem-solving tools:

#### Enhanced PMM Server logs

The default number of log lines for each log file returned by `httsp://<pmm-server>/logs.zip` endpoint has been increased from 1,000 to 50,000.

Additionally, the endpoint now includes a customizable line-count parameter in the download URL, allowing you to specify a custom number of log lines or opt for unlimited log size. For more information, see the [API documentation](https://percona-pmm.readme.io/reference/logs).

#### Streamlined Kubernetes diagnostics 

New PMM client docker images now include essential troubleshooting tools:

- `tar` enables easier file transfer in and out of containers using the `kubectl cp` command.
- `curl` allows direct checking of exporters to verify their proper functioning.

### Official ARM support for PMM Client
With the growing adoption of ARM in data centers and cloud environments, we are excited to announce official support for ARM architecture in PMM Clients. This enables you to seamlessly monitor ARM-based infrastructure, including popular cloud instances and emerging ARM-powered servers.

Starting with version 2.43, PMM now includes pre-built binaries for ARM architecture. With this update, PMM Client features, such as `node_exporter` and `mysqld_exporter`, are fully supported and optimized for ARM platforms. Additionally, ARM-based PMM Clients seamlessly integrate with existing PMM Server installations, enabling unified monitoring across both x86 and ARM architectures.

#### Upgrading and getting started
If you have been compiling PMM on ARM manually, you can now upgrade to the 2.43 release for official support. The [Set up PMM Client topic](../setting-up/client/index.md) now also includes ARM-specific instructions for new installations.

### New MongoDB collector: CurrentOp

The MongoDB exporter now includes the **CurrentOp** collector, offering visibility into active operations, including the new `mongodb_currentop_query_uptime` metric.

To start the MongoDB exporter with the CurrentOp collector enabled, use the `--enable-all-collectors` flag when adding MongoDB services to your PMM instance:

```sh
pmm-admin add mongodb --enable-all-collectors ...
```

Specifying a limit with `--max-collections` for this collector is not necessary.

!!! note "Operation collection limitation"
    To minimize impact on disk usage, the CurrentOp collector is designed to collect only operations that have been running for longer than 1 minute. This limitation helps focus on potentially problematic long-running operations while keeping data volume manageable.

For more information on MongoDB collectors and metrics, see the [pmm-admin commands documentation](../use/commamds/pmm-admin.md).



## Improvements

- [PMM-13133](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-13133) -

- [PMM-13054](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-13054) - The default number of log lines returned by the `/logs.zip` endpoint has been increased from 1,000 to 50,000, with an added option to customize the line count or allow unlimited log size via a parameter in the download URL.
  
- [PMM-13159](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-13159) - We have removed the experimental MongoDB **Collection Details** dashboard from PMM. You can now find up-to-date collection information on the new Mongo **Cluster Summary** dashboard, which provides a more comprehensive and accurate view of MongoDB collection metrics.

If you have been using the **Collection Details** dashboard, make sure to now check the new **MongoDB Cluster Summary** dashboard for similar information.


## Maintenance

### QAN update: Upgrade to `pg_query_go` v5 and impact on PostgreSQL 9.x

As part of our ongoing maintenance efforts, we have upgraded the `pg_query_go` package to version 5. This latest version helps parse PostgreSQL queries in QAN, provides improved functionality, and enables subsequent upgrades of important dependencies.

However, with this change, QAN will no longer be able to list PostgreSQL database tables for versions 9.4, 9.5, and 9.6. Since all PostgreSQL 9.x versions have already reached their end-of-life status, we recommend upgrading to a supported version of PostgreSQL.

If you're looking to upgrade, you can easily [install the latest version of Percona Distribution for PostgreSQL](https://docs.percona.com/postgresql/16/installing.html).

### Fixed issues

- [PMM-13246](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-13246) - Addressed four security vulnerabilities (CVEs) related to the GNU C Library (Glibc), specifically affecting the Name Service Cache Daemon (nscd):

   - [CVE-2024-33599](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-33599)
   - [CVE-2024-33600](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-33600)
   - [CVE-2024-33601](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-33601)
   - [CVE-2024-33602](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-33602)


 While these vulnerabilities did not directly impact PMM's core functionality, fixing them enhanced the overall security of the PMM Server environment.

- [PMM-13255](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-13255) - Resolved two issues with the MongoDB Replication Lag Alert: one where an error occurred during the import of the alert rule template, and another where the alert description displayed an incorrect current value for the replication lag.



- [PMM-12965](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-12965) - We've improved the 
**MongoDB replication lag is high** alert template to make sure it:

- now triggers only for `SECONDARY` nodes that are up and exceed the lag threshold, eliminating false alarms during maintenance.
- excludes `PRIMARY` nodes from alerts, as they cannot lag behind themselves.

To ensure you're using the updated alert logic, make sure to recreate any alerts based on this alert rule template.

- [PMM-12451](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-12451) and [PMM-13017](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-13017) - Resolved an issue with parsing JSON objects into the correct data types and aligned the explain functionality with the official MongoDB client. These updates enhance consistency with MongoDB's native tools and provide improved performance insights.

- [PMM-13071](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-13071) - The **Explain** tab on the Query Analytics (QAN) page now properly handles unsupported MongoDB query types. For operations like `INSERT`, which don’t support explain functionality, you will now see a clear message saying that the operation is not explainable. This replaces the previous, confusing error message about duplicate BSON fields, offering more accurate feedback in QAN.

