documentation/docs/admin/roles/access-control/create_roles.md, before:


# Create access roles

Roles are a vital part of Access control. Roles provide users with access to specific, role-based metrics.

To create access roles in PMM, do the following:
{.power-number}

1. From the [main menu](../../../reference/ui/ui_components.md), go to **PMM Configuration > Settings > Advanced Settings** and enable the **Access Roles** option.
2. Go to **Administration > Users and access > Access Roles**.

    ![!](../../../images/PMM_access_control_create_role.png)

3. Click **Create**.
4. On the **Create role** page, enter the Role name and Role description.
5. Select the following from the drop-downs for metrics access:
    - Label
    - Operator
    - Value of the label

    If you want to add more than one label for a role, click *+* and select the values from the drop-down.

    For information on how the Prometheus selectors work, see [Prometheus selectors](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/basics/#time-series-selectors).

6. Click **Create** role.

!!! note alert alert-primary "Note"
    To create roles, you must have admin privileges. For more information, see [Manage users](../../manage-users/index.md).

Commit message:

PMM-9146 Documentation update for LBAC (#3936)
* PMM-9146 Documentation update for LBAC

* PMM-9146 Update intro.md

* PMM-9146 provide an endpoint to modify custom labels

* PMM-9146 add instead of assign labels

* PMM-9146 update the use case diagram

* PMM-9146 update the use cases scenario

* PMM-9146 remove unused images

* PMM-9146 fix the rendering of tables

* PMM-9146 simplify the scenarios

* PMM-9146 fix the anchor link

* PMM-9146 expand the selectors for the user

* Update documentation/docs/admin/roles/access-control/use_cases.md

Co-authored-by: Nurlan Moldomurov <nurlan.moldomurov@percona.com>

* Update documentation/docs/admin/roles/access-control/intro.md

Co-authored-by: Nurlan Moldomurov <nurlan.moldomurov@percona.com>

* PMM-9146 update the Modify labels section

* PMM-9146 follow up on PR review

* linguistic review

* Update assign_roles.md

* LBAC references in QAN info

* Update documentation/docs/admin/roles/access-control/enable_access_control.md

* Update documentation/docs/admin/roles/access-control/enable_access_control.md

* Update documentation/docs/use/qan/index.md

* Update index.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Nurlan Moldomurov <nurlan.moldomurov@percona.com>
Co-authored-by: Catalina A <94133018+catalinaadam@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Catalina A <catalina.adam@percona.com>

documentation/docs/admin/roles/access-control/create_roles.md, after:


# Create access roles

Roles are essential components of PMM's access control system. They allow you to limit users' access to specific metrics based on their responsibilities and permissions.

## Before you begin

- You must have administrator privileges to create roles. For more information, see [Manage users](../../manage-users/index.md).
- Access control must be enabled in PMM settings

## Create a new role

To create access roles in PMM:
{.power-number}

1. From the [main menu](../../../reference/ui/ui_components.md), go to **PMM Configuration > Settings > Advanced Settings** and enable the **Access control** option.
2. Go to **Administration > Users and access > Access Roles**.

    ![PMM Access Control - Create role](../../../images/lbac/PMM_access_control_create_role.png)

3. Click **Create**.
4. On the **Create role** page, enter the Role name and Role description.
5. Configure metrics access by setting label selectors:
    - select a Label (e.g., "service_name", "environment")
    - choose an Operator (e.g., "=", "!=", "=~")
    - enter the Value for the selected label

    If you want to add more than one label for a role, click *+* and select the values from the drop-down.

    For information on how the Prometheus selectors work, see [Prometheus selectors](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/basics/#time-series-selectors).

6. Review your selections, then click **Create** to finalize the role.
