# Percona Monitoring and Management 1.0.5


* **Date**

    October 14, 2016



* **PMM Server**

    [https://hub.docker.com/r/percona/pmm-server/](https://hub.docker.com/r/percona/pmm-server/)



* **PMM Client**

    [https://www.percona.com/downloads/pmm-client/](https://www.percona.com/downloads/pmm-client/)


## Upgrading

**NOTE**: All custom Grafana dashboards and settings in Metrics Monitor
will be reset when you upgrade PMM Server.
Back it up and restore after the upgrade.
Starting from version 1.0.5, it is possible to preserve this data,
but you will have to recreate the data container
with `-v /var/lib/grafana`.
If you choose to recreate the data container,
all previously collected data will be lost.


1. Stop and remove the `pmm-server` container:

    ```
    docker stop pmm-server && docker rm pmm-server
    ```


2. If you also want to recreate the `pmm-data` container
with support for custom Grafana dashboards and settings:

    ```
    docker rm pmm-data
    ```


3. If you removed `pmm-data` container, create it with the new version tag:

    ```
    docker create \
      -v /opt/prometheus/data \
      -v /opt/consul-data \
      -v /var/lib/mysql \
      -v /var/lib/grafana \
      --name pmm-data \
      percona/pmm-server:1.0.5 /bin/true
    ```


4. Create the `pmm-server` container with the new version tag:

    ```
    docker run -d \
      -p 80:80 \
      --volumes-from pmm-data \
      --name pmm-server \
      --restart always \
      percona/pmm-server:1.0.5
    ```


5. Install new PMM Client version.
If you previously installed using Percona repositories,
you can upgade the package as follows:


    * For Debian-based distributions:

        ```
        sudo apt-get install --only-upgrade pmm-client
        ```


    * For Red Hat Enterprise Linux derivatives:

        ```
        sudo yum update pmm-client
        ```

## Changes

**PMM Server changes:**


* Prometheus 1.1.3


* Consul 0.7.0


* Added Orchestrator - a MySQL replication topology management
and visualization tool.
Available at `/orchestrator` URL.

**NOTE**: Orchestrator was included into PMM for experimental purposes.
It is a standalone tool, not integrated with PMM
other than that you can access it from the landing page.


* Added ProxySQL metrics and dashboard


* Changed metric storage encoding to achieve less disk space usage by 50-70%.


* Grafana data is now stored in the data container
to preserve your custom dashboards and settings.

**NOTE**: To enable this, create the data container
with `-v /var/lib/grafana`.


* MySQL Query Analytics data is now preserved when you remove and then add
a `mysql:queries` instance with the same name using `pmm-admin`.


* Fixed rare issue when Nginx tries to use IPv6 for localhost connections.


* Improvements and fixes to Query Analytics.


* Various dashboard improvements.

**PMM Client changes:**


* Added check for orphaned local and remote services.


* Added `repair` command to remove orphaned services.


* Added `proxysql:metrics` service and `proxysql_exporter`.


* Amended `check-network` output.


* Disabled initial client configuration with a name that is already in use.


* Changed the threshold for automatically disabling table stats
when adding `mysql:metrics` service to 1000 tables on the server.
Table stats were previously automatically disabled
only if there were over 10 000 tables.
You can still manually disable table stats using
`pmm-admin add mysql --disable-tablestats`.
For more information, see What are common performance considerations?.


* Fixes for `mysql:queries` service:


    * Improved registration and detection of orphaned setup


    * PID file “” is no longer created on Amazon Linux
(requires to re-add `mysql:queries` service)


    * Fixed support for MySQL using a timezone different than UTC


    * Corrected detection of slow log rotation and also perform its own rotation
when used as a query source


    * `RELOAD` privilege is now required to flush the slow log
