# Percona Monitoring and Management 1.0.6


* **Date**

    November 15, 2016



* **PMM Server**

    [https://hub.docker.com/r/percona/pmm-server/](https://hub.docker.com/r/percona/pmm-server/)



* **PMM Client**

    [https://www.percona.com/downloads/pmm-client/](https://www.percona.com/downloads/pmm-client/)


## Upgrading


1. Stop and remove the `pmm-server` container:

    ```
    docker stop pmm-server && docker rm pmm-server
    ```

2. Create the `pmm-server` container with the new version tag:

    ```
    docker run -d \
      -p 80:80 \
      --volumes-from pmm-data \
      --name pmm-server \
      --restart always \
      percona/pmm-server:1.0.6
    ```

3. Install new PMM Client version
on all hosts that you are monitoring.
If you previously installed using Percona repositories,
you can upgrade the package as follows:


    * For Debian-based distributions:

        ```
        sudo apt-get install --only-upgrade pmm-client
        ```


    * For Red Hat Enterprise Linux derivatives:

        ```
        sudo yum update pmm-client
        ```

## Changes

**New in PMM Server:**


* Prometheus 1.2.2


* Made external static files local for PMM home page


* Metrics Monitor improvements:


    * Added *Amazon RDS OS Metrics* dashboard and CloudWatch data source.


    * Added the PMM Server host to metrics monitoring.


    * Refactored MongoDB dashboards.


    * Added *File Descriptors* graph to **System Overview** dashboard.


    * Added *Mountpoint Usage* graph to **Disk Space** dashboard.


* Query Analytics improvements:


    * QAN data is now purged correctly.


    * QAN data retention is made configurable
with `QUERIES_RETENTION` option.
Default is 8 days.


* Various small fixes to Query Analytics.

**New in PMM Client:**


* Fixes for `mysql:queries` service using Performance Schema as query source:


    * Fixed crash when `DIGEST_TEXT` is `NULL`.


    * Removed iteration over all query digests on startup.


    * Added sending of query examples to QAN if available
(depends on the workload).


* Added query source information for `mysql:queries` service
in `pmm-admin list` output.


* Added `purge` command to purge metrics data on the server.


* Updated `mongodb_exporter` with RocksDB support and various fixes.


* Removed `--nodetype` and `--replset` flags for `mongodb:metrics`.
The `--cluster` flag is now optional.

It is recommended to re-add `mongodb:metrics` service
and purge existing MongoDB metrics using the `purge` command.


* Enabled monitoring of file descriptors
(requires re-adding `linux:metrics` service).


* Improved full uninstallation when PMM Server is unreachable.


* Added time drift check between server and client
to pmm-admin check-network output.
