documentation/docs/pmm-upgrade/ui_upgrade.md, before:

# Upgrade PMM v3 Server from the UI

PMM Server and Client components are installed and updated separately.

PMM v3 Server can run natively, as a Docker image, a virtual appliance, or an AWS cloud instance. While each environment has its own specific installation and update steps, the UI-based upgrade method is universal and recommended for most users.

## Upgrade process

The preferred and simplest way to update PMM v3 Server is via the **Updates** page:
{.power-number}

1. Go to **PMM Configuration > Updates** in your PMM web interface. Here you can check the current PMM Server version, the timestamp of the last update check and whether your instance is up-to-date.  

2. If an update is available, click the **Update now** button to install the latest version.

![Update page](../images/Update_page.png)

## Quick upgrade check

For a quick overview of your PMM v3 Server's update status, you can also check to the **Upgrade** panel on the **Home** page.

![PMM Home Dashboard Upgrade Panel](../images/PMM_Home_Dashboard_Panels_Upgrade.jpg)

Commit message:

Fixed links and incorrect references in upgrade and Install with Docker (#3538)

documentation/docs/pmm-upgrade/ui_upgrade.md, after:

# Upgrade PMM v3 Server from the UI

PMM Server and Client components are installed and updated separately.

PMM v3 Server can run natively, as a Docker image, a virtual appliance, or an AWS cloud instance. While each environment has its own specific installation and update steps, the UI-based upgrade method is universal and recommended for most users.

## Prerequisites

To use the UI upgrade feature, you must have Watchtower installed and properly configured with your PMM Server. 

If Watchtower is not installed, the UI upgrade options will not be available. See [Running PMM Server with Watchtower](../install-pmm/install-pmm-server/baremetal/docker/index.md) for setup instructions.

## Upgrade process

The preferred and simplest way to update PMM v3 Server is via the **Updates** page:
{.power-number}

1. Go to **PMM Configuration > Updates** in your PMM web interface. Here you can check the current PMM Server version, the timestamp of the last update check and whether your instance is up-to-date.  

2. If an update is available, click the **Update now** button to install the latest version.

![Update page](../images/Update_page.png)

## Quick upgrade check

For a quick overview of your PMM v3 Server's update status, you can also check to the **Upgrade** panel on the **Home** page.

![PMM Home Dashboard Upgrade Panel](../images/PMM_Home_Dashboard_Panels_Upgrade.jpg)
