documentation/docs/pmm-upgrade/upgrade_docker.md, before:

# Upgrade PMM Server using Docker

## Before you begin

Before starting the upgrade, complete these preparation steps to ensure you can recover your system if needed and confirm compatibility with the new version:
{.power-number}

1. Create a backup before upgrading, as downgrades are not possible. Therefore, reverting to a previous version requires an backup made prior to the upgrade.

2. Verify your current PMM version: Check your current PMM version by navigating to **PMM Configuration > Updates** or by running the following command: 

    ```sh
   docker exec -it pmm-server curl -ku admin:admin https://localhost:8443/v1/version
    ```

## Upgrade steps

Follow these steps to upgrade your PMM Server while preserving your monitoring data and settings. In case of any issues, you can restore your system using the backup created in the preparation steps.
{.power-number}

1. Stop the current container:

    ```sh
   docker stop pmm-server
    ```

2. [Back up your data](../install-pmm/install-pmm-server/baremetal/docker/backup_container.md).

3. Pull the latest image:

    ```sh
   docker pull percona/pmm-server:3
    ```

4. Rename the original container:

    ```sh
   docker rename pmm-server pmm-server-old
    ```

5. Run the new container:

    ```sh
   docker run \
   --detach \
   --restart always \
   --publish 443:8443 \
   --volumes-from pmm-data \
   --name pmm-server \
   percona/pmm-server:3
   ```

6. After upgrading, verify that PMM Server is running correctly and all your data is accessible.

Commit message:

Document backup restore following automatic upgrade

documentation/docs/pmm-upgrade/upgrade_docker.md, after:

# Manual upgrade: Upgrade PMM Server using Docker

## Before you begin

Before starting the upgrade, complete these preparation steps to ensure you can recover your system if needed and confirm compatibility with the new version:
{.power-number}

1. Create a backup before upgrading, as downgrades are not possible. Therefore, reverting to a previous version requires an backup made prior to the upgrade.

2. Verify your current PMM version: Check your current PMM version by navigating to **PMM Configuration > Updates** or by running the following command: 

    ```sh
   docker exec -it pmm-server curl -ku admin:admin https://localhost:8443/v1/version
    ```

## Upgrade steps

Follow these steps to upgrade your PMM Server while preserving your monitoring data and settings. In case of any issues, you can restore your system using the backup created in the preparation steps.
{.power-number}

1. Stop the current container:

    ```sh
   docker stop pmm-server
    ```

2. [Back up your data](../install-pmm/install-pmm-server/baremetal/docker/backup_container.md).

3. Pull the latest image:

    ```sh
   docker pull percona/pmm-server:3
    ```

4. Rename the original container:

    ```sh
   docker rename pmm-server pmm-server-old
    ```

5. Run the new container:

    ```sh
   docker run \
   --detach \
   --restart always \
   --publish 443:8443 \
   --volumes-from pmm-data \
   --name pmm-server \
   percona/pmm-server:3
   ```

6. After upgrading, verify that PMM Server is running correctly and all your data is accessible. You can always [revert to PMM 2](../install-pmm/install-pmm-server/baremetal/docker/restore_container.md) using the backup you created above.
