# Percona Monitoring and Management 2.0.0

<table class="docutils field-list" frame="void" rules="none">
  <colgroup>
    <col class="field-name">
    <col class="field-body">
  </colgroup>
  <tbody valign="top">
    <tr class="field-odd field">
      <th class="field-name">Date:</th>
      <td class="field-body">September 19, 2019</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Percona Monitoring and Management (PMM) is a free and open-source platform for managing and monitoring MySQL, MongoDB, and PostgreSQL performance. You can run *PMM* in your own environment for the best security and reliability. It provides thorough time-based analysis for MySQL, MongoDB, and PostgreSQL servers to ensure that your data works as efficiently as possible.

For installation instructions, see [Installing Percona Monitoring and Management](../setting-up/index.md).

!!! caution alert alert-warning "Caution"
    PMM 2 is designed to be used as a new installation — please don’t try to upgrade your existing PMM 1 environment.

The new PMM2 introduces a number of enhancements and additional feature improvements, including:

- Detailed query analytics and filtering technologies enable you to identify issues faster than ever before.
- A better user experience: Service-level dashboards give you immediate access to the data you need.
- The new addition of PostgreSQL query tuning.
- Enhanced security protocols to ensure your data is safe.
- Our new API allows you to extend and interact with third-party tools.

More details about new and improved features available within the release can be found [in the corresponding blog post](https://www.percona.com/blog/2019/09/19/percona-monitoring-and-management-pmm-2-ga-is-now-available/).

Help us improve our software quality by reporting any Percona Monitoring and Management bugs you encounter using our [bug tracking system](https://jira.percona.com/secure/Dashboard.jspa).