# Percona Monitoring and Management (PMM) 2.44.1

| **Release date** | April 24, 2025 |
|------------------|---------------|
| **Installation** | [Install PMM 2](../quickstart/index.md)  <br> [Install PMM 3](https://per.co.na/pmm/quickstart) |


Percona Monitoring and Management (PMM) is an open source database monitoring, management, and observability solution for MySQL, PostgreSQL, and MongoDB.

It enables you to observe the health of your database systems, explore new patterns in their behavior, troubleshoot them, and execute database management operations regardless of whether your databases are located on-premises or in the cloud.

## Release summary

PMM 2.44.1 is a maintenance release that improves MongoDB monitoring reliability and addresses security vulnerabilities through updated Docker images.

## What's new

### PMM v3 migration notice

When you launch PMM 2, you’ll now see a notification prompting you to migrate to PMM v3, as PMM 2 is no longer actively developed.

This highlights PMM v3’s enhanced security, improved stability, and overall smoother experience. It also includes a direct link to the migration documentation to help guide you through the process.

Since the release of PMM 3 in January 2025, PMM 2 has entered its maintenance phase, receiving only Critical and High CVE fixes for six months after this new version release. For continued support and to access all future improvements, we strongly recommend upgrading to PMM 3 now.

### Fixed visibility of offline MongoDB replica set nodes

Fixed a monitoring gap in the [MongoDB ReplSet Summary](../details/dashboards/dashboard-replsetsummary.md) dashboard, where nodes in a **Down** state occasionally disappeared from the **States** panel.

Offline now remain consistently visible in both panels with a clear **Down** status (highlighted in red).

### CVE fixes

Fixed [CVE-2023-45288](https://security.snyk.io/vuln/SNYK-GOLANG-GOLANGORGXNETHTTPHTTPPROXY-9058601), a Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF) vulnerability, by updating the `golang.org/x/net/http/httpproxy` package to version 0.36.0 across multiple components in the PMM Client Docker image. 

This prevents potential attacks that could bypass proxy restrictions and strengthens overall security. 