docs/install-pmm/install-pmm-client/package_manager.md, before:

# Install PMM client with Percona repositories

On Debian or Red Hat Linux, install `percona-release` and use a Linux package manager (`apt`/`dnf`) to install PMM Client.

!!! hint alert alert-success "Tip"
    If you have used `percona-release` before, disable and re-enable the repository:

    ```sh
    percona-release disable all
    percona-release percona-release enable pmm3-client
    ```

=== "Debian-based"
    To install PMM client:
    {.power-number}

    1. Configure repositories.

        ```sh
        wget https://repo.percona.com/apt/percona-release_latest.generic_all.deb
        dpkg -i percona-release_latest.generic_all.deb
        ```

    2. Install the PMM Client package.

        !!! hint "Root permissions"
            ```sh
            apt update
            apt install -y pmm-client
            ```

    3. Check.

        ```sh
        pmm-admin --version
        ```

    4. [Register the node](..//register-client-node/index.md).

=== "Red Hat-based"

    1. Configure repositories.

        ```sh
        yum install -y https://repo.percona.com/yum/percona-release-latest.noarch.rpm
        ```

    2. Install the PMM Client package.

        ```sh
        yum install -y pmm-client
        ```

    3. Check.

        ```sh
        pmm-admin --version
        ```

    4. [Register the node](../register-client-node/index.md).

## Package manager -- manual download

To manually download package manager:
{.power-number}

1. Visit the [Percona Monitoring and Management 3 download](https://www.percona.com/downloads//) page.
2. Under *Version:*, select the one you want (usually the latest).
3. Under *Software:*, select the item matching your software platform.
4. Click to download the package file:

    - For Debian, Ubuntu: `.deb`
    - For Red Hat, CentOS, Oracle Linux: `.rpm`

(Alternatively, copy the link and use `wget` to download it.)

=== "Debian-based"

    ```sh
    dpkg -i *.deb
    ```

=== "Red Hat-based"

    ```sh
    dnf localinstall *.rpm
    ```
??? info "Download page links"

    Here are the download page links for each supported platform.

    - [Debian 9 (Stretch)](https://www.percona.com/downloads/pmm3/{{release}}/binary/debian/stretch/)
    - [Debian 10 (Buster)](https://www.percona.com/downloads/pmm3/{{release}}/binary/debian/buster/)
    - [Debian 11 (Bullseye)](https://www.percona.com/downloads/pmm3/{{release}}/binary/debian/bullseye/)
    - [Red Hat/CentOS/Oracle 7](https://www.percona.com/downloads/pmm3/{{release}}/binary/redhat/7/)
    - [Red Hat/CentOS/Oracle 8](https://www.percona.com/downloads/pmm3/{{release}}/binary/redhat/8/)
    - [Ubuntu 18.04 (Bionic Beaver)](https://www.percona.com/downloads/pmm3/{{release}}/binary/debian/bionic/)
    - [Ubuntu 20.04 (Focal Fossa)](https://www.percona.com/downloads/pmm3/{{release}}/binary/debian/focal/)
    - [Ubuntu 22.04 (Jammy Jellyfish)](https://www.percona.com/downloads//{{release}}/binary/debian/jammy/)

Commit message:

OH changes for ARM Support (#1280)
* PMM-13020

* removed ID

* Update 3.0.0_Beta.md

* Update docs/install-pmm/install-pmm-client/connect-database/external.md

Co-authored-by: Alex Demidoff <alexander.demidoff@percona.com>

* feedback from Alex

* Update haproxy.md

* Update proxysql.md

* Update pmm-admin.md

* Update pmm-agent.md

* Update pmm-admin.md

* Update pmm-admin.md

* Update labels.md

* PMM-8019

* PMM-8019, 6722, 12646

* reworded

* PMM-12376

* Update docs/release-notes/3.0.0_Beta.md

Co-authored-by: Alex Demidoff <alexander.demidoff@percona.com>

* Update docs/release-notes/3.0.0_Beta.md

Co-authored-by: Alex Demidoff <alexander.demidoff@percona.com>

* Update docs/release-notes/3.0.0_Beta.md

Co-authored-by: Alex Demidoff <alexander.demidoff@percona.com>

* Update docs/release-notes/3.0.0_Beta.md

Co-authored-by: Alex Demidoff <alexander.demidoff@percona.com>

* Update docs/release-notes/3.0.0_Beta.md

Co-authored-by: Alex Demidoff <alexander.demidoff@percona.com>

* Update docs/release-notes/3.0.0_Beta.md

Co-authored-by: Alex Demidoff <alexander.demidoff@percona.com>

* Update docs/release-notes/3.0.0_Beta.md

Co-authored-by: Alex Demidoff <alexander.demidoff@percona.com>

* PMM-13159

* Update 3.0.0_Beta.md

* updated link

* fixed link

* linked in ToC

* Merge branch 'ARM_support' of https://github.com/percona/pmm-doc into ARM_support

* Update hardware_and_system.md

* Update docs/install-pmm/index.md

Co-authored-by: Nurlan Moldomurov <nurlan.moldomurov@percona.com>

* feedback from Nurlan

---------

Co-authored-by: Alex Demidoff <alexander.demidoff@percona.com>
Co-authored-by: Nurlan Moldomurov <nurlan.moldomurov@percona.com>

docs/install-pmm/install-pmm-client/package_manager.md, after:

# Install PMM client with Percona repositories

PMM Client supports both x86_64 and ARM64 architectures.  
On Debian or Red Hat Linux, install `percona-release` and use a Linux package manager (`apt`/`dnf`) to install PMM Client.
The package manager will automatically select the appropriate version for your system architecture.

!!! hint alert alert-success "Tip"
    If you have used `percona-release` before, disable and re-enable the repository:

    ```sh
    percona-release disable all
    percona-release percona-release enable pmm3-client
    ```

=== "Debian-based"
    To install PMM client:
    {.power-number}

    1. Configure repositories.

        ```sh
        wget https://repo.percona.com/apt/percona-release_latest.generic_all.deb
        dpkg -i percona-release_latest.generic_all.deb
        ```

    2. Install the PMM Client package.

        !!! hint "Root permissions"
            ```sh
            apt update
            apt install -y pmm-client
            ```

    3. Check.

        ```sh
        pmm-admin --version
        ```

    4. [Register the node](..//register-client-node/index.md).

=== "Red Hat-based"

    1. Configure repositories.

        ```sh
        yum install -y https://repo.percona.com/yum/percona-release-latest.noarch.rpm
        ```

    2. Install the PMM Client package.

        ```sh
        yum install -y pmm-client
        ```

    3. Check.

        ```sh
        pmm-admin --version
        ```

    4. [Register the node](../register-client-node/index.md).

## Package manager -- manual download

To manually download package manager:
{.power-number}

1. Visit the [Percona Monitoring and Management 3 download](https://www.percona.com/downloads//) page.
2. Under *Version:*, select the one you want (usually the latest).
3. Under *Software:*, select the item matching your software platform and architecture (x86_64 or ARM64).
4. Click to download the package file:

    - For Debian, Ubuntu: `.deb`
    - For Red Hat, CentOS, Oracle Linux: `.rpm`

(Alternatively, copy the link and use `wget` to download it.)

=== "Debian-based"

    ```sh
    dpkg -i *.deb
    ```

=== "Red Hat-based"

    ```sh
    dnf localinstall *.rpm
    ```
??? info "Download page links"

    Here are the download page links for each supported platform.

    - [Debian 9 (Stretch)](https://www.percona.com/downloads/pmm3/{{release}}/binary/debian/stretch/)
    - [Debian 10 (Buster)](https://www.percona.com/downloads/pmm3/{{release}}/binary/debian/buster/)
    - [Debian 11 (Bullseye)](https://www.percona.com/downloads/pmm3/{{release}}/binary/debian/bullseye/)
    - [Red Hat/CentOS/Oracle 7](https://www.percona.com/downloads/pmm3/{{release}}/binary/redhat/7/)
    - [Red Hat/CentOS/Oracle 8](https://www.percona.com/downloads/pmm3/{{release}}/binary/redhat/8/)
    - [Ubuntu 18.04 (Bionic Beaver)](https://www.percona.com/downloads/pmm3/{{release}}/binary/debian/bionic/)
    - [Ubuntu 20.04 (Focal Fossa)](https://www.percona.com/downloads/pmm3/{{release}}/binary/debian/focal/)
    - [Ubuntu 22.04 (Jammy Jellyfish)](https://www.percona.com/downloads//{{release}}/binary/debian/jammy/)
