.. _2.0.0:

=======================================
Percona Monitoring and Management 2.0.0
=======================================

:Date: September 19, 2019

*PMM* (`Percona Monitoring and Management <https://www.percona.com/doc/2.x/percona-monitoring-and-management/index.html>`_) is a free and open-source platform for managing and monitoring MySQL, MongoDB, and PostgreSQL performance. You can run *PMM* in your own environment for maximum security and reliability. It provides thorough time-based analysis for |MySQL|, |MongoDB|, and |postgresql| servers to ensure that your data works as efficiently as possible.

For install instructions, see :ref:`Installing Percona Monitoring and Management<pmm.deploying.server>`.

.. note:: PMM 2
   is designed to be used as a new installation — please don’t try to upgrade
   your existing PMM 1 environment.

The new PMM2 introduces a number of enhancements and additional feature
improvements, including:

* Detailed query analytics and filtering technologies which enable you to
  identify issues faster than ever before.
* A better user experience: Service-level dashboards give you immediate access
  to the data you need.
* The new addition of PostgreSQL query tuning.
* Enhanced security protocols to ensure your data is safe.
* Our new API allows you to extend and interact with third-party tools.

More details about new and improved features available within the release can be
fount `in the correspondent blog post <https://www.percona.com/blog/2019/09/19/percona-monitoring-and-management-pmm-2-ga-is-now-available/>`_.

Help us improve our software quality by reporting any Percona Monitoring and Management bugs you encounter using our `bug tracking system <https://jira.percona.com/secure/Dashboard.jspa>`_.

.. include:: /.res/replace.txt
