.. _PMM-2.5.0:

================================================================================
*Percona Monitoring and Management* 2.5.0
================================================================================

:Date: April 14, 2020

:Installation: `Installing Percona Monitoring and Management <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-monitoring-and-management/2.x/install/index-server.html>`_

*PMM* (`Percona Monitoring and Management <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-monitoring-and-management/index.html>`_)
is a free and open-source platform for managing and monitoring MySQL, MongoDB, and PostgreSQL
performance.

New Features
================================================================================

* :jirabug:`PMM-5042` and :jirabug:`PMM-5272`: PMM can now connect to MySQL instances by specifying a UNIX socket. This can be done with a new ``--socket`` option of the ``pmm-admin add mysql`` command. (Note: Updates to both PMM Client and PMM Server were done to allow UNIX socket connections.)
* :jirabug:`PMM-4145`: Amazon RDS instance metrics can now be independently enabled/disabled for Basic and/or Enhanced metrics.



Improvements
================================================================================

* :jirabug:`PMM-5581`: PMM Server Grafana plugins can now be updated on the command line with the ``grafana-cli`` command-line utility.
* :jirabug:`PMM-5536`: Three Grafana plugins were updated to the latest versions: vertamedia-clickhouse-datasource to 1.9.5, grafana-polystat-panel to 1.1.0, and grafana-piechart-panel to 1.4.0.
* :jirabug:`PMM-4252`: The resolution of the PMM Server favicon image has been improved.



Bugs Fixed
================================================================================

* :jirabug:`PMM-5547`: PMM dashboards were failing when presenting data from more than 100 monitored instances (error message ``proxy error: context canceled``).
* :jirabug:`PMM-5624`: Empty charts were being shown in some Node Temperature dashboards.
* :jirabug:`PMM-5637`: The Data retention value in Settings was incorrectly showing the value as minutes instead of days.
* :jirabug:`PMM-5613`: Sorting data by Query Time was not working properly in Query Analytics.
* :jirabug:`PMM-5554`: Totals in charts were inconsistently plotted with different colors across charts.
* :jirabug:`PMM-4919`: The force option (``--force``) in ``pmm-admin config`` was not always working.
* :jirabug:`PMM-5351`: The documentation on MongoDB user privileges has been corrected.


Help us improve our software quality by reporting any bugs you encounter using `our bug tracking system <https://jira.percona.com/secure/Dashboard.jspa>`_.


