.. _1.0.4:

=======================================
Percona Monitoring and Management 1.0.4
=======================================

:Date: September 13, 2016
:PMM Server: https://hub.docker.com/r/percona/pmm-server/
:PMM Client: https://www.percona.com/downloads/pmm-client/

This is the first General Availability (GA) release.

Upgrading
=========

.. note:: This release introduces major changes and requires you to
   completely remove any previous versions of all PMM components.
   This means you will lose all previously collected data
   and start from scratch.

1. :ref:`Remove all PMM Clients <deploy-pmm.removing>`

#. :ref:`Remove PMM Server <deploy-pmm.removing>`
   (including the ``pmm-data`` container).

   .. code-block:: bash

      docker stop pmm-server && docker rm pmm-server && docker rm pmm-data

#. :ref:`Create the PMM data container <data-container>`

#. :ref:`Create and run the PMM Server container <server-container>`

#. :ref:`Install PMM Clients <deploy-pmm.client.installing>` on all your monitored hosts

Changes
=======

**PMM Server changes:**

* Grafana 3.1.1

* Prometheus 1.0.2

* Added SSL and HTTP password protection support

* Removed the extra ``alias`` label for Prometheus

* Added ``MongoDB RocksDB``, ``PXC/Galera Cluster Overview`` dashboards

* Introduced some visual amendments to the dashboards

* Added ability to save predefined dashboards in place

* Query Analytics App:

  * Added sparkline charts to metrics
  * Added search by query fingerprint
  * Various smaller fixes and improvements

**PMM Client changes:**

* Renamed services managed by ``pmm-admin``:

  * ``os`` > ``linux:metrics``
  * ``mysql`` > ``mysql:metrics``
  * ``queries`` > ``mysql:queries``
  * ``mongodb`` > ``mongodb:metrics``

* Added group commands:

  * ``pmm-admin add mysql`` and ``pmm-admin rm mysql``:
    add and remove ``linux:metrics``, ``mysql:metrics``,
    and ``mysql:queries`` services
  * ``pmm-admin add mongodb`` and ``pmm-admin rm mongodb``:
    add and remove ``linux:metrics`` and ``mongodb:metrics`` services

* Added options to support SSL and HTTP password protection for *PMM Server*

* Added check whether the required binaries of exporters are installed.

* Changed behaviour of ``--create-user`` flag for adding MySQL instance:

  * Now ``pmm-admin`` employs a single `pmm` MySQL user, verifies if it exists,
    and stores the generated password in the configuration
  * Added checks whether MySQL is read-only or a replication slave
  * Stored credentials are automatically picked up by ``pmm-admin`` when valid

* Replaced standard ``mysqld_exporter`` with custom one
  (https://github.com/percona/mysqld_exporter).
  This enables ``pmm-admin`` to create a single ``mysql:metrics`` service
  instead of three per MySQL instance.

* Added check for MongoDB connectivity
  when adding ``mongodb:metrics`` instance.

* Removed the requirement to specify the name when removing a service
  (the client's name is used by default)

* Allowed to add more than one ``linux:metrics`` instance for testing purpose

* Added consistency checks to avoid duplicate services across clients

* Implemented automatic client address detection

* Improved installation process:
  the install script now just copies binaries.
  You need to use ``pmm-admin config`` to add *PMM Server* address.

* Now ``pmm-admin`` does not modify ``linux:metrics`` instance
  when adding ``mongodb:metrics``

* Table stats are now disabled automatically
  if there are more than 10 000 tables

