.. _1.0.2:

============================================
Percona Monitoring and Management Beta 1.0.2
============================================

:Date: July 28, 2016
:PMM Server: https://hub.docker.com/r/percona/pmm-server/
:PMM Client: https://www.percona.com/downloads/TESTING/pmm/pmm-client.tar.gz

Upgrading
=========

.. note:: This beta release introduces major changes to *PMM Client*
   and simplifies Docker commands for *PMM Server*.
   If you want to preserve Metrics Monitor data,
   do not remove the ``pmm-data`` container.
   However, previous QAN data will be lost anyway.

1. :ref:`Remove PMM Server <deploy-pmm.removing>`

#. :ref:`Remove all PMM Clients <deploy-pmm.removing>`

#. If you removed the ``pmm-data`` container,
   create it as described in :ref:`data-container`

#. :ref:`Create and run the PMM Server container <server-container>`

#. :ref:`Install PMM Client <deploy-pmm.client.installing>` on all your monitored hosts

Changes
=======

**New software used in PMM Server:**

* Prometheus 1.0.1
* Grafana 3.1.0

**Simplified interaction with PMM Server container:**

* Eliminated port 9001

  Now the container uses only one configurable port (80 by default)

* Eliminated the ``ADDRESS`` variable

  The IP address of the host is now automatically detected

**Redesigned the Query Analytics web app:**

* Redesigned the metrics table
* Added the ability to show more than 10 queries
* Added sparkline charts
* Redesigned the instance settings page
* Redesigned the query profile table

**Other changes related to PMM Server:**

* Set the default metrics retention for Prometheus to 30 days.
  For more information, see :ref:`data-retention`

* Improved MongoDB dashboards based on feedback from experts.

**Improved PMM Client management:**

The ``pmm-admin`` has been fully rewritten and is now much more powerful,
with more commands, options, and a user-friendly CLI.
For more inforamtion about using ``pmm-admin``, see :ref:`pmm-admin`.

* Added the ``--help`` option to display built-in help for any command.

* Added the ability to set a custom name when adding an instance.
  By default, the local host name is used.

* Added the ``--service-port`` option to specify the port
  that you want the service to use  when adding the corresponding instance.
  By default, it automatically assigns an available port starting from 42000.
  For more information, see :ref:`service-port`

* Added the ``check-network`` command to test bidirectional connection
  and latency between *PMM Client* and *PMM Server*.

* Added the ``ping`` command to ping *PMM Server* from *PMM Client*.

* Added the ``start`` and ``stop`` commands
  to manually start and stop services managed by ``pmm-admin``.

* Added the following new options for ``pmm-admin add mysql``
  to deal with performance issues:

  * ``--disable-infoschema``:
    Disable all metrics from the ``information_schema`` tables.

  * ``--disable-per-table-stats``:
    Disable per table metrics (for MySQL servers with a huge number of tables)

  For more information, see :ref:`performance-issues`

* When using the ``--create-user`` option
  to add a QAN or MySQL metrics monitoring instance,
  the password generated for the new user now conforms
  with MySQL 5.7 default password policy.

**Other changes related to PMM Client:**

* Eliminated intermediate ``percona-prom-pm`` process.
  All monitoring services are now created dynamically
  via the platform service manager
  (``systemd``, ``upstart``, or ``systemv``).

* Added the ability to monitor multiple instances of MySQL and MongoDB
  on the same node

* Cleaned up and improved the installation and uninstallation scripts
