.. _1.0.7:

=======================================
Percona Monitoring and Management 1.0.7
=======================================

:Date: December 12, 2016
:PMM Server: https://hub.docker.com/r/percona/pmm-server/
:PMM Client: https://www.percona.com/downloads/pmm-client/

Upgrading
=========

1. Stop and remove the ``pmm-server`` container::

    docker stop pmm-server && docker rm pmm-server

#. Create the ``pmm-server`` container with the new version tag::

    docker run -d \
      -p 80:80 \
      --volumes-from pmm-data \
      --name pmm-server \
      --restart always \
      percona/pmm-server:1.0.7

#. :ref:`Install new PMM Client version <install-client>`
   on all hosts that you are monitoring.
   If you previously installed using Percona repositories,
   you can upgade the package as follows:

   * For Debian-based distributions::

      sudo apt-get install --only-upgrade pmm-client

   * For Red Hat Enterprise Linux derivatives::

      sudo yum update pmm-client

#. (Optional) :ref:`Remove <pmm-admin-rm>` and :ref:`add <pmm-admin-add>`
   the services running on PMM clients.

   There are changes related to authentication and general security
   that will only be available after you re-add the services.
   For more information, see the changes mentioned below.

Changes
=======

**New in PMM Server:**

* Grafana 4.0.2

* Prometheus 1.4.1

* Consul 0.7.1

* Orchestrator 2.0.1

* Enabled HTTPS/TLS and basic authentication support on Prometheus targets

* Fixed potential error with too many connections on Query Analytics API

* Added new widgets and graphs to *PXC/Galera Graphs* dashboard

* Fixed hostgroup filtering for *ProxySQL Overview* dashboard

* Various fixes to MongoDB dashboards

**New in PMM Client:**

* Added the ``--bind-address`` option
  to support running *PMM Server* and *PMM Client* on the different networks.

  By default, this is the address of *PMM Client*.
  When running PMM on different networks,
  set ``--client-address`` to remote (public) address
  and ``--bind-address`` to local (private) address.

  .. note:: This assumes you configure NAT and port forwarding
     between those addresses.

* Added the ``show-passwords`` command
  to display the current HTTP authentication credentials
  and password of the last created user on MySQL
  (this is useful for replication setups).

* Fixed slow log rotation for ``mysql:queries`` service with MySQL 5.1.

* Exposed PXC/Galera gcache size as a metric.

* Amended output of ``systemv`` service status
  if run ad-hoc (requires re-adding the services).

* Added automatic generation of self-signed SSL certificate
  to protect metric services with HTTPS/TLS by default
  (requires re-adding services, see ``check-network`` output).

* Enabled basic HTTP authentication for metric services
  when defined on *PMM Server* and configured on *PMM Client*
  to achieve client-side protection
  (requires re-adding services, see ``check-network`` output).

* Removed MongoDB connection string from being passed in command-line arguments
  and hidden password from the process list
  (requires re-adding the ``mongodb:metrics`` service).

* Removed network port listening by ``mysql:queries`` service
  (``percona-qan-agent`` process) as there is no need for it.

* Replaced emojis with terminal colors for output of the ``check-network``
  and ``list`` commands.

