.. _1.0.5:

=======================================
Percona Monitoring and Management 1.0.5
=======================================

:Date: October 14, 2016
:PMM Server: https://hub.docker.com/r/percona/pmm-server/
:PMM Client: https://www.percona.com/downloads/pmm-client/

Upgrading
=========

.. note:: All custom Grafana dashboards and settings in Metrics Monitor
   will be reset when you upgrade PMM Server.
   Back it up and restore after the upgrade.
   Starting from version 1.0.5 it is possible to preserve this data.
   To enable this, remove the :ref:`data container <data_container>`
   and create it with ``-v /var/lib/grafana``.

1. Stop and remove the ``pmm-server`` container:

   .. code-block:: bash

      docker stop pmm-server && docker rm pmm-server

#. Create and run from the image with the new version tag,
   as described in :ref:`server-container`.

#. Download and install the new *PMM Client* package
   as described :ref:`here <client-install>`.

Changes
=======

**PMM Server changes:**

* Prometheus 1.1.3

* Consul 0.7.0

* Added Orchestrator - a MySQL replication topology management
  and visualization tool.
  Available at ``/orchestrator`` URL.

* Added ProxySQL metrics and dashboard

* Changed metric storage encoding to achieve less disk space usage by 50-70%.

* Grafana data is now stored in the :ref:`data container <data-container>`
  to preserve your custom dashboards and settings.

  .. note:: To enable this, create the data container
     with ``-v /var/lib/grafana``.

* MySQL Query Analytics data is now preserved when you remove and then add
  a ``mysql:queries`` instance with the same name using ``pmm-admin``.

* Fixed rare issue when Nginx tries to use IPv6 for localhost connections.

* Improvements and fixes to Query Analytics.

* Various dashboard improvements.

**PMM Client changes:**

* Added check for orphaned local and remote services.

* Added ``repair`` command to remove orphaned services.

* Added ``proxysql:metrics`` service and ``proxysql_exporter``.

* Amended ``check-network`` output.

* Disabled inital client configuration with a name that is already in use.

* Changed the threshold for automatically disabling table stats
  when adding ``mysql:metrics`` service to 1000 tables on the server.
  Table stats were previously automatically disabled
  only if there were over 10 000 tables.
  You can still manually disable table stats using
  ``pmm-admin add mysql --disable-tablestats``.
  For more information, see :ref:`performance-issues`.

* Fixes for ``mysql:queries`` service:

  * Improved registration and detection of orphaned setup
  * PID file "" is no longer created on Amazon Linux
    (requires to re-add ``mysql:queries`` service)
  * Fixed support for MySQL using a timezone different than UTC
  * Corrected detection of slow log rotation and also perform its own rotation
    when used as a query source
  * ``RELOAD`` privilege is now required to flush the slow log

