.. _1.10.0:

================================================================================
|pmm.name| |release|
================================================================================

:Date: April 19, 2018

|percona| announces the release of |pmm.name| |release|.  |pmm.intro| is a free
and open-source platform for managing and monitoring |mysql| and |mongodb|
performance.  You can run |pmm| in your own environment for maximum security and
reliability. It provides thorough time-based analysis for |mysql| and |mongodb|
servers to ensure that your data works as efficiently as possible.

We focused mainly on two features in |release|, but there are also several
notable improvements worth highlighting:

- Annotations - Record and display application events as annotations using
  |pmm-admin.annotate|
- |grafana| 5.0 - Improved visualization effects

Annotations  
================================================================================

Application events are one of the contributors to changes in database
performance characteristics, and in this release |pmm| now supports receiving
events and displaying them as annotations using the new command
|pmm-admin.annotate|. A recent |percona| survey reveals that database and DevOps
engineers highly value visibility into the application layer.

By displaying application events on top of your |pmm| graphs,
engineers can now correlate application events to database events
(common cases: application deploys, outages, and upgrades).

Usage
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For example, you have an application deployment that just completed to version
1.2, and it affects the UI only, so you want to set tags for the version and
interface impacted:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ pmm-admin annotate "Application deploy v1.2" --tags "UI, v1.2"

Using the optional |opt.tags| option allows you to filter which annotations are
displayed on the dashboard via a toggle option.

|grafana| 5.0
================================================================================

Included in |grafana| 5.0 are a number of dramatic improvements, which in future
|pmm| releases we plan to extend our usage of each feature, and the one we like
best is the virtually unlimited way you can size and shape graphs.  No longer
are you bound by panel constraints to keep all objects at the same fixed height!
This improvement indirectly addresses the visualization error in |pmm-server|
where some graphs would appear to be on two lines and ended up wasting screen
space.

Issues in this release
================================================================================	   

New Features and Improvements
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- :pmmbug:`2293`: Added the *Galera Replication Latency* graph to the
  *PXC/Galera Cluster overview* dashboard.
- :pmmbug:`2295`: PXC/Galera Graphs -> Galera Replication Latency
- :pmmbug:`2371`: Add back Host parameters to menu
- :pmmbug:`2330`: PMM Application Annotations
- :pmmbug:`2332`: Grafana 5 update


Bug fixes
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- :pmmbug:`2311`: Metric's table in |qan| looks weird
- :pmmbug:`2341`: Typo in text on password page of OVF
- :pmmbug:`2359`: Trim leading and trailing whitespaces for all fields on
  AWS/OVF Installation wizard
- :pmmbug:`2360`: Whats new link for Update widget
- :pmmbug:`2346`: Innodb AHI Graphs invalid
- :pmmbug:`2364`: QPS are wrong in QAN
- :pmmbug:`2388`: Query fingerprint not rendering


.. |release| replace:: 1.10.0
		       
.. include:: ../.res/replace/name.txt
.. include:: ../.res/replace/program.txt
.. include:: ../.res/replace/option.txt			    
.. include:: ../.res/replace/url.txt
