.. _1.17.3:

================================================================================
Percona Monitoring and Management 1.17.3
================================================================================

:Date: January XX, 2020

*PMM* (`Percona Monitoring and Management <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-monitoring-and-management/index.html>`_) is a free and open-source platform for managing and monitoring |MySQL|, |MongoDB|, and |postgresql| performance. You can run *PMM* in your own environment for maximum security and reliability. It provides thorough time-based analysis for |MySQL|, |MongoDB|, and |postgresql| servers to ensure that your data works as efficiently as possible.

PMM 1.17.3 release provides fixes for the regular expressions cross-site
scripting vulnerability in the ``serialize-javascript`` package
(CVE-2019-16769). Please note PMM versions were not affected by this
vulnerability, as serialize-javascript package is used as a build dependency
only.

In release 1.17.3 we have included X improvements and fixed XX bugs:

Improvements
================================================================================

Fixed Bugs
================================================================================

* :pmmbug:`5119`: The serialize-javascript package was updated to version 2.1.1
  because of the possibility of regular expressions cross-site scripting
  vulnerability in it (CVE-2019-16769).
* :pmmbug:`5075`: Switching to "Only New queries" in Query Analytics resulted in
  always displaying first seen queries even after switching back.
* :pmmbug:`5014`: LVM logical volumes were wrongly sized on a new AWS
  deployment, resulting in "no space left on device" errors.
* :pmmbug:`4685`: After removing all MongoDB servers from a cluster, the
  drop-down list on the MongoDB Overview dashboard still included the cluster
  name, because dashboards were fully refreshed on load only, irrelative to the
  selected time range.

Help us improve our software quality by reporting any Percona Monitoring and Management bugs you encounter using `our bug tracking system <https://jira.percona.com/secure/Dashboard.jspa>`_.

How to get PMM Server
================================================================================

PMM is available for installation using three methods:

* `Docker Hub <https://hub.docker.com/r/percona/pmm-server/>`_ – ``docker pull percona/pmm-server`` – `Documentation <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-monitoring-and-management/deploy/server/docker.html>`_
* `AWS Marketplace <https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/B077J7FYGX>`_ – `Documentation <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-monitoring-and-management/deploy/server/ami.html>`_
* `Open Virtualization Format (OVF) <https://www.percona.com/downloads/pmm/>`_ – `Documentation <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-monitoring-and-management/deploy/server/virtual-appliance.html>`_

.. include:: .res/replace.txt
