.. _1.2.2:

=======================================
Percona Monitoring and Management 1.2.2
=======================================

:Date: August 23, 2017

For install and upgrade instructions, see :ref:`deploy-pmm`.

This release contains bug fixes related to performance and introduces
various improvements. It also contains an updated version of Grafana.


Changes in PMM Server
=====================

The following changes were introduced in *PMM Server* 1.2.2:

Bug fixes
---------

* :pmmbug:`927`: The error "Cannot read property 'hasOwnProperty' of
  undefined" was displayed on the QAN page for mongodb.

  After enabling monitoring and generating data for mongodb, the PMM client
  showed the following error message on the QAN page: "Cannot read property
  'hasOwnProperty' of undefined". This bug is now fixed.

* :pmmbug:`949`: Percona Server was not detected properly, the log_slow_* variables were not properly detected.

* :pmmbug:`1081`: Performance Schema Monitor treated queries that
  didn't show up in every snapshot as new queries reporting a wrong
  number of counts between snapshots.

* :pmmbug:`1272`: mongodb`: the query empty abstract. This bug is now fixed.

* :pmmbug:`1277`: The QPS Graph had inappropriate prometheus query. This bug is now fixed.

* :pmmbug:`1279`: The MongoDB summary did not work in QAN2 if mongodb authentication was activated. This bug is now fixed.

* :pmmbug:`1284`: Dashboards pointed to QAN2 instead of QAN. This bug is now fixed.

Improvements
------------

* :pmmbug:`586`: The wsrep_evs_repl_latency parameter is now monitored in Grafana dashboards
* :pmmbug:`624`: The Grafana User ID remains the same in the pmm-server docker image
* :pmmbug:`1209`: OpenStack support is now enabled during the OVA image creation
* :pmmbug:`1211`: It is now possible to configure a static IP for an OVA image

  The root password can only be set from console. If the root password
  is not changed from the default, a warning message appears on the
  console requesting the user to change the root password on the root
  first login from console. Web/SSH users can neither use the root
  account password nor detect if the root password is set to the
  default value.

* :pmmbug:`1221`: Grafana updated to version 4.4.3

