.. _1.3.0:

================================================================================
Percona Monitoring and Management |version|
================================================================================

:Date: September 26, 2017

For install and upgrade instructions, see :ref:`deploy-pmm`.

In its release |version|, Percona Monitoring and Management introduces
basic support for the MyRocks storage engine. There is a special
dashboard in :program:`Metrics Monitor` where the essential metrics of
MyRocks are presented as separate graphs. And :program:`Metrics
Monitor` graphs now feature on-demand descriptions.

There are many improvements to QAN (Query Analytics) both in the user
interface design and in its capabilities. In this release, :program:`QAN` starts supporting all types of MongoDB queries.

New Features
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* :pmmbug:`1290`: Basic support for the metrics of the MyRocks storage engine in MySQL via the mysqld-exporter.
* :pmmbug:`1312`: Metrics Monitor now features a MyRocks dashboard.
* :pmmbug:`1330`: Basic telemetry data are collected from PMM Servers.
* :pmmbug:`1417`: A new dashboard in Metrics Monitor designed to enable exploring any data in Prometheus
* :pmmbug:`1437`: :program:`pmm-admin` allows passing parameters to exporters
* :pmmbug:`685`:  The EXMPLAIN command is now suppored for MongoDB queries in :program:`QAN`.

Improvements
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* :pmmbug:`1262`: The system checks for updates much faster
* :pmmbug:`1015`: :program:`QAN` should shows all collections from a mongod instance. Make sure that profiling is enabled in MongoDB.
* :pmmbug:`1057`: :program:`QAN` supports all MongoDB query types.
* :pmmbug:`1270`: In :program:`Metrics Monitor`, the dashboard filter dispalys only MariaDB hosts.
* :pmmbug:`1287`: In :program:`pmm-admin` *mongodb:queries* is not experimental any more and the :option:`dev-enable` option is no longer needed.
* :pmmbug:`1446`: In :program:`Metrics Monitor`, the *MySQL Active Threads* graph displays data more accurately.
* :pmmbug:`1455`: In :program:`Metrics Monitor`, features descriptions of graphs
* :pmmbug:`1476`: QAN2 is used by default in *pmmdemo.percona.com*
* :pmmbug:`1479`: It is now possible to go to :program:`QAN` directly from :program:`Metrics Monitor`.
* :pmmbug:`515`: :program:`Orchestrator` is disabled by default. It is possible to enable it when running your docker container.

Bug fixes
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* :pmmbug:`1298`: In :program:`QAN`, the query abstract could be empty for MySQL hosts for low ranking queries. This bug is fixed to contain *Low Ranking Queries* as the value of the query astract.
* :pmmbug:`1314`: The selected time range in :program:`QAN` could be applied incorrectly. This bug is now fixed.
* :pmmbug:`1398`: Prometheus memory was not updated after PMM upgrade. This bug is now fixed.
* :pmmbug:`1427`: The *CPU Usage/Load* graph in the *MySQL Overview* dashboard was displayed with slightly incorrect dimensions. This bug is now solved.
* :pmmbug:`1439`: If the EXPLAIN command was not supported for the selected query, there could appear a JavaScript error.
* :pmmbug:`1472`: It could happen that monitoring of queries for for MongoDB with replication could not be enabled.
* :pmmbug:`943`: InnoDB AHI Usage Graph had incorrect naming and hit ratio computation.

.. |version| replace:: 1.3.0

