.. _1.5.0:

================================================================================
Percona Monitoring and Management |release|
================================================================================

:Date: November 23, 2017

Percona announces the release of Percona Monitoring and Management |release|.

- Enhanced support for MySQL on Amazon RDS and Amazon Aurora–
  Dedicated Amazon Aurora dashboard offers maximum visibility into key
  database characteristics, eliminating the need for additional
  monitoring nodes.
- Simpler configuration – Percona Monitoring and Management now offers
  easier configuration of key Amazon RDS and Amazon Aurora settings
  via a web interface.
- One-click data collection – One button retrieves vital information
  on server performance to assist with troubleshooting.
- Improved interface – A simple, consistent user interface makes it
  faster and more fluid to switch between Query Analytics and Metrics
  Monitor.

|qan| is now integrated into |grafana| as a separate dashboard. This new design
has all the features that |qan| offered when it was a |pmm| module. 

With this release, |pmm.name| introduces a new deployment option: Amazon Market place.

In this release, |grafana| and |prometheus| have been upgraded. |pmm|
now includes |grafana| 4.6.1.  One of the most prominent features that the
upgraded |grafana| offers is the support of annotations. You can mark a point or
select a region in a graph and give it a meaningful description. For more
information, see `the release highlights
<http://docs.grafana.org/guides/whats-new-in-v4-6/>`_.

|prometheus| version 1.8.2, shipped with this release, offers a number of bug
fixes. For more information, see
`the Prometheus change log <https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#182--2017-11-04>`_.

New features
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- :pmmbug:`434`: |pmm| enables monitoring of Amazon RDS and Amazon Aurora
  metrics by simply specifying user information without the need to run an EC2
  instance alongside |pmm-server|.
- :pmmbug:`722`: The *MyISAM* dashboard was renamed to *MyISAM/Aria Metrics*;
  the *MariaDB* was removed from |pmm| and its metrics moved to the *MyISAM/Aria Metrics*
- :pmmbug:`1133`: |qan.name| is available from |grafana| as a dashboard
- :pmmbug:`1258`: The |opt.disable-updates| option disables manual updates via
  web interface when |pmm-server| is run from a |docker| container. The system
  can only be updated via the terminal.
- :pmmbug:`1500`: Add InnoDB Buffer Disk Reads

Improvements
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- :pmmbug:`699`: AWS RS and Amazon Aurora metrics were combined into one dashboard
- :pmmbug:`1577`: |prometheus| was updated to version 1.8.2
- :pmmbug:`1603`: |grafana| was updated to version  4.6.1
- :pmmbug:`1669`: The representation of numeric values in the *Context Switches*
  graph in the *System Overview* dashboard was changed to improve readability.

Other improvements:
:pmmbug:`873`,
:pmmbug:`879`,
:pmmbug:`911`,
:pmmbug:`1575`,
:pmmbug:`1612`

Bug fixes
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- :pmmbug:`1082`: The |graph.cpu_usage| graph  on the *Trends* dashboard showed incorrect spikes
- :pmmbug:`1549`: The authentication of the mongodb:queries monitoring service
  did not work properly when the name of the database to authenticate was not provided.

Other bugs: :pmmbug:`1673`

.. |release| replace:: 1.5.0

.. include:: ../.resources/name.txt
