documentation/docs/install-pmm/install-pmm-server/baremetal/docker/index.md, before:

# Install PMM Server with Docker container

This section explains how to install PMM Server as a Docker container. While PMM Server runs independently, we highly recommend installing [Watchtower](https://containrrr.dev/watchtower/) alongside it to enable convenient [PMM Server upgrades](../../../../pmm-upgrade/ui_upgrade.md) through the PMM user interface. With Watchtower, you can upgrade PMM Server directly from the **Upgrade** page or by clicking the **Upgrade Now** button on the **Home** dashboard.

## Prerequisites

Before starting the installation:

- Install Docker version 17.03 or higher
- Ensure your CPU supports `x86-64-v2`
- Security requirements for Watchtower:

    - restrict Watchtower access to Docker network or localhost
    - configure network to expose only PMM Server externally
    - secure Docker socket access for Watchtower
    - place both Watchtower and PMM Server on the same network

## Installation options

You can install PMM Server with Watchtower in two ways:


=== "Easy-install script"

    The [Easy-install script](../docker/easy-install.md) simplifies setup by including Watchtower commands, enabling a one-step installation of PMM with Watchtower. Run the following command:

      ```sh
      curl -fsSL https://www.percona.com/get/pmm | /bin/bash
      ```

=== "Manual installation"

    For a more customizable setup, follow these steps:
    {.power-number}

    1.  Create a Docker network for PMM and Watchtower:
         ```sh
         docker network create pmm-network
         ```

    2. (Optional) Install Watchtower to enable PMM Server upgrades via the UI. The `WATCHTOWER_HTTP_API_TOKEN` in the installation command is a user-defined token that secures Watchtower's HTTP API. You can set this to any value, but make sure to use the same token in both the Watchtower and PMM Server configurations:

         ```sh  
         docker run --detach \
         --restart always \
         --network=<your_network> \
         -e WATCHTOWER_HTTP_API_TOKEN=your_token \
         -e WATCHTOWER_HTTP_API_UPDATE=1 \
         --volume /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
         --name watchtower \
         percona/watchtower:latest
         ```

    3. Run PMM Server with Docker based on your preferred data storage method:
         - [Run Docker with host directory](../docker/run_with_host_dir.md)
         - [Run Docker with volume](../docker/run_with_vol.md)


## Run Docker container

??? info "Summary"

    !!! summary alert alert-info ""
        - Pull the Docker image.
        - Choose how you want to store data.
        - Run the image.
        - Open the PMM UI in a browser.

    ---
??? info "Key points"

    - To disable the Home Dashboard **PMM Upgrade** panel you can either add `-e PMM_ENABLE_UPDATES=false` to the `docker run` command (for the life of the container) or navigate to **PMM Configuration > Settings > Advanced Settings** and disable **Check for Updates** (can be turned back on by any admin in the UI).

    - Eliminate browser certificate warnings by configuring a [trusted certificate](../../../../how-to/secure.html#ssl-encryption).

    - You can optionally enable an (insecure) HTTP connection by adding `--publish 80:8080` to the `docker run` command. However, running PMM insecure is not recommended. You should also note that PMM Client *requires* TLS to communicate with the server, only working on a secure port.

Commit message:

example for access token generation

documentation/docs/install-pmm/install-pmm-server/baremetal/docker/index.md, after:

# Install PMM Server with Docker container

This section explains how to install PMM Server as a Docker container. While PMM Server runs independently, we highly recommend installing [Watchtower](https://containrrr.dev/watchtower/) alongside it to enable convenient [PMM Server upgrades](../../../../pmm-upgrade/ui_upgrade.md) through the PMM user interface. With Watchtower, you can upgrade PMM Server directly from the **Upgrade** page or by clicking the **Upgrade Now** button on the **Home** dashboard.

## Prerequisites

Before starting the installation:

- Install Docker version 17.03 or higher
- Ensure your CPU supports `x86-64-v2`
- Security requirements for Watchtower:

    - restrict Watchtower access to Docker network or localhost
    - configure network to expose only PMM Server externally
    - secure Docker socket access for Watchtower
    - place both Watchtower and PMM Server on the same network

## Installation options

You can install PMM Server with Watchtower in two ways:


=== "Easy-install script"

    The [Easy-install script](../docker/easy-install.md) simplifies setup by including Watchtower commands, enabling a one-step installation of PMM with Watchtower. Run the following command:

      ```sh
      curl -fsSL https://www.percona.com/get/pmm | /bin/bash
      ```

=== "Manual installation"

    For a more customizable setup, follow these steps:
    {.power-number}

    1.  Create a Docker network for PMM and Watchtower:
         ```sh
         docker network create pmm-network
         ```

    2. (Optional) Install Watchtower to enable PMM Server upgrades via the UI:
       {.power-number}

       2.1. Create a user-defined token to secure Watchtower's HTTP API. You can use any value or generate a secure token using `openssl` or another method. Ensure the same token is used in both the Watchtower and PMM Server configurations:
        
        ```sh   
        openssl rand -hex 16
        # Example output:
        e09541c81e672bf0e48dbc72d4f92790
        ```
       
       2.2. Install Watchtower using your token: 

         ```sh  
         docker run --detach \
         --restart always \
         --network=<your_network> \
         -e WATCHTOWER_HTTP_API_TOKEN=your_token \
         -e WATCHTOWER_HTTP_API_UPDATE=1 \
         --volume /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
         --name watchtower \
         percona/watchtower:latest
         ```

    3. Run PMM Server with Docker based on your preferred data storage method:
         - [Run Docker with host directory](../docker/run_with_host_dir.md)
         - [Run Docker with volume](../docker/run_with_vol.md)


## Run Docker container

??? info "Summary"

    !!! summary alert alert-info ""
        - Pull the Docker image.
        - Choose how you want to store data.
        - Run the image.
        - Open the PMM UI in a browser.

    ---
??? info "Key points"

    - To disable the Home Dashboard **PMM Upgrade** panel you can either add `-e PMM_ENABLE_UPDATES=false` to the `docker run` command (for the life of the container) or navigate to **PMM Configuration > Settings > Advanced Settings** and disable **Check for Updates** (can be turned back on by any admin in the UI).

    - Eliminate browser certificate warnings by configuring a [trusted certificate](../../../../how-to/secure.html#ssl-encryption).

    - You can optionally enable an (insecure) HTTP connection by adding `--publish 80:8080` to the `docker run` command. However, running PMM insecure is not recommended. You should also note that PMM Client *requires* TLS to communicate with the server, only working on a secure port.
