documentation/docs/install-pmm/install-pmm-server/baremetal/docker/isolated_hosts.md, before:


# Isolated hosts

If the host where you will run PMM Server has no internet connection, you can download the Docker image on a separate (internet-connected) host and securely copy it.
{.power-number}

1. On an internet-connected host, download the Docker image and its checksum file.

    ```sh
    wget https://downloads.percona.com/downloads/pmm/{{release}}/docker/pmm-server-{{release}}.docker
    wget https://downloads.percona.com/downloads/pmm/{{release}}/docker/pmm-server-{{release}}.sha256sum
    ```

2. Copy both files to where you will run PMM Server.

3. Open a terminal on the PMM Server host.

4. (Optional) Check the Docker image file integrity.

    ```sh
    shasum -ca 256 pmm-server-{{release}}.sha256sum
    ```

5. Load the image.

    ```sh
    docker load -i pmm-server-{{release}}.docker
    ```

6. [Run the container](index.md#run-docker-container) as if your image is already pulled using your desired method for a storage volume (you can step over any docker pull commands as the image has been pre-staged).


[tags]: https://hub.docker.com/r/percona/pmm-server/tags
[Docker]: https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/
[Docker image]: https://hub.docker.com/r/percona/pmm-server
[Docker compose]: https://docs.docker.com/compose/
[PMMC_COMPOSE]: ../client/index.md#docker-compose
[trusted certificate]: ../../how-to/secure.md#ssl-encryption
[Easy-install script]: easy-install.md

Commit message:

PMM-7 fix links (#3545)
* PMM-7 fix links in install page

* PMM-7 Fix links.

* additional link fix

* feedback from Matthew

* PMM install links

* typo

* updated  ToC reference

* improve title

* changed links

* fixed anchors

* Update documentation/docs/install-pmm/index.md

Co-authored-by: Alex Demidoff <alexander.demidoff@percona.com>

* fix: docker.md rendering

* chore: make one-liners look better

* fixed capitalization

---------

Co-authored-by: Alex Demidoff <alexander.demidoff@percona.com>
Co-authored-by: Catalina A <catalina.adam@percona.com>
Co-authored-by: Catalina A <94133018+catalinaadam@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Alex Demidoff <alex@demidoff.me>

documentation/docs/install-pmm/install-pmm-server/baremetal/docker/isolated_hosts.md, after:

# Isolated hosts

If the host where you will run [PMM Server][Docker image] has no internet connection, you can download the Docker image on a separate (internet-connected) host and securely copy it.
{.power-number}

1. On an internet-connected host, download the [Docker][Docker] image and its checksum file:

    ```sh
    wget https://downloads.percona.com/downloads/pmm/{{release}}/docker/pmm-server-{{release}}.docker
    wget https://downloads.percona.com/downloads/pmm/{{release}}/docker/pmm-server-{{release}}.sha256sum
    ```

2. Copy both files to where you will run PMM Server.

3. Open a terminal on the PMM Server host.

4. (Optional) Check the Docker image file integrity:

    ```sh
    shasum -ca 256 pmm-server-{{release}}.sha256sum
    ```

5. Load the image:

    ```sh
    docker load -i pmm-server-{{release}}.docker
    ```

6. [Run the container](index.md#run-docker-container) as if your image is already pulled using your desired method for a storage volume (you can step over any docker pull commands as the image has been pre-staged).

For more information, see:
- [Docker installation guide][Docker]
- [Docker Compose installation][Docker compose]
- [PMM Server Docker tags][tags]
- [PMM Client Docker setup][PMMC_COMPOSE]
- [Setting up trusted certificates][trusted certificate]
- [Easy installation script][Easy-install script]

[tags]: https://hub.docker.com/r/percona/pmm-server/tags
[Docker]: https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/
[Docker image]: https://hub.docker.com/r/percona/pmm-server
[Docker compose]: https://docs.docker.com/compose/
[PMMC_COMPOSE]: ../../../install-pmm-client/docker.md
[trusted certificate]: ../../../../how-to/secure.md#ssl-encryption
[Easy-install script]: easy-install.md
